Helping Our Members in Need 
TI1is book will help raise over $100,000 
for AAPC members in financial hardship. 
Modifier 
Description 
Modifier 
Description 
Modi!ier 
Description 
AO 
Physician providing a service in an 
CF 
AMCC test has been ordered by an 
EE 
Hematocrit level has not exceeded 
unlisted health professional shortage 
ESRD facility or MCP physician that 
39% (or hemoglobin level has not 
area (HPSA) 
is not part of the composite rate and 
exceeded 13.0 G/dl) for 3 or more 
AR 
Physician provider services in a 
physician scarcity area 
AS 
Physician assistant, nurse practitioner, 
or clinical nurse specialist services for 
assistant at surgery 
AT 
Acute treatment (this modifier should 
be used when reporting service 
98940,98941,98942) 
AU 
Item furnished in conjunction with a 
urological, ostomy, or tracheostomy 
supply 
AV 
Item furnished in conjunction with 
a prosthetic device, prosthetic or 
orthotic 
AW 
Item furnished in conjunction with a 
surgical dressing 
is separately billable 
CG 
Policy criteria applied 
CH 
0 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
Cl 
At least 1 percent but less than 
20 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
CJ 
At least 20 percent but less than 
40 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
CK 
At least 40 percent but less than 
60 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
CL 
At least 60 percent but less than 
80 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
consecutive billing cycles immediately 
prior to and includino the current cvcle 
EJ 
Subsequent claims for a defined 
course of therapy, e.g., EPO, sodium 
hyaluronate, infliximab 
EM 
Emergency reserve supply (for ESRD 
benefit onlvl 
EP 
Service provided as part of Medicaid 
early periodic screening diagnosis 
and treatment /EPSDT) orooram 
ER 
Items and services furnished by 
a provider-based, off-campus 
emergency department 
ET 
Emergencv services 
EX 
Expatriate beneficiary 
EY 
No physician or other licensed health 
care provider order for this item or 
AX 
Item furnished in conjunction with 
CM 
At least 80 percent but less than 
service 
dialysis services 
100 percent impaired, limited or 
F1 
Left hand, second digit 
AY 
Item or service furnished to an ESRD 
restricted 
F2 
Left hand, third digit 
patient that is not for the treatment 
CN 
100 percent impaired, limited or 
F3 
Left hand, fourth digit 
of ESRD 
restricted 
F4 
Left hand, fifth digit 
AZ 
Physician providing a service in a 
dental health professional shortage 
co 
Outpatient occupational therapy 
services furnished in whole or in part 
F5 
Right hand, thumb 
F6 
Right hand, second digit 
area for the purpose of an electronic 
health record incentive payment 
BA 
Item furnished in conjunction with 
parenteral enteral nutrition (PEN) 
services 
BL 
Special acquisition of blood and 
blood products 
BO 
Orally administered nutrition, not by 
feeding tube 
BP 
The beneficiary has been informed of 
the purchase and rental options and 
has elected to purchase the item 
BR 
The beneficiary has been informed of 
the purchase and rental options and 
has elected to rent the item 
BU 
The beneficiary has been informed of 
the purchase and rental options and 
after 30 days has not informed the 
supplier of his/her decision 
CA 
Procedure payable only in the 
inpatient setting when performed 
emergently on an outpatient who 
expires prior to admission 
CB 
Service ordered by a renal dialysis 
facility (RDF) physician as part of the 
ESRD beneficiary's dialysis benefit, is 
not part of the composite rate, and is 
separately reimbursable 
cc 
Procedure code change (use 'CC' 
when the procedure code submitted 
was changed either for administrative 
reasons or because an incorrect code 
was filed) 
CD 
AMCC test has been ordered by an 
ESRD facility or MCP physician that 
is part of the composite rate and is 
not separately billable 
CE 
AMCC test has been ordered by an 
ESRD facility or MCP physician that 
is a composite rate test but is beyond 
the normal frequency covered 
under the rate and is separately 
reimbursable based on medical 
necessity 
by an occupational therapy assistant 
CO 
Outpatient physical therapy services 
furnished in whole or in part by a 
physical therapist assistant 
CR 
Catastrophe/disaster related 
cs 
Cost-sharing waived for specified 
COVID-19 testing-related services 
that result in and order for or 
administration of a COVID-19 test 
and/or used for cost-sharing waived 
preventive services furnished via
telehealth in rural health clinics and 
federally qualified health centers 
during the COVID-19 public health 
emergency 
CT 
Computed tomography services 
furnished using equipment that does 
not meet each of the attributes of 
the National Electrical Manufacturers 
Association (NEMA) XR-29-2013 
standard 
DA 
Oral health assessment by a licensed 
health professional other than a 
dentist 
E1 
Upper left, eyelid 
E2 
Lower left, eyelid 
E3 
Upper right, eyelid 
E4 
Lower right, eyelid 
EA 
Erythropoietic stimulating agent 
(ESA) administered to treat anemia 
due to anti-cancer chemotherapy 
EB 
Erythropoietic stimulating agent 
(ESA) administered to treat anemia 
due to anti-cancer radiotherapy 
EC 
Erythropoietic stimulating agent 
(ESA) administered to treat anemia 
not due to anti-cancer radiotherapy 
or anti-cancer chemotherapy 
ED 
Hematocrit level has exceeded 39% 
(or hemoglopin level has exceeded 
13.0 G/dl) for 3 or more consecutive 
billing cycles immediately prior to 
and including the current cycle 
F7 
Right hand, third digit 
F8 
Right hand, fourth digit 
F9 
Right hand, fifth digit 
FA 
Left hand, thumb 
FB 
Item provided without cost to 
provider, supplier or practitioner, 
or full credit received for replaced 
device (examples, but not limited to, 
covered under warranty, replaced 
due to defect, free samples) 
FC 
Partial credit received for replaced 
device 
FP 
Service provided as part of family 
plannino prooram 
FQ 
The service was furnished using 
audio-only communication 
technology 
FR 
The supervising practitioner was 
present through two-way, audio/ 
video communication technology 
FS 
Split (or shared) evaluation and 
manaaement visit 
FT 
Unrelated evaluation and management 
(e/m) visit on the same day as another 
elm visit or during a global procedure 
(preoperative, postoperative period, or 
on the same day as the procedure, as 
applicable). (report when an elm visit 
is furnished within the global period 
but is unrelated, or when one or more 
additional elm visits furnished on the 
same dav are unrelated) 
FX 
X-ray taken using film
FY 
X-ray taken using computed
radiography technology/cassette-
based imaging
GO 
Telehealth services for diagnosis, 
evaluation, or treatment, of 
symptoms of an acute stroke 
G1 
Most recent URR reading of less 
than 60 
G2 
Most recent URR reading of 60 
to 64.9 
G3 
Most recent URR reading of 65 
to 69.9 
Modifier 
Description 
Modifier 
Description 
Modifier 
Description 
G4 
Most recent URR reading of 70 
to 74.9 
GT 
Via interactive audio and video 
telecommunication systems 
JD 
Skin substitute not used as a graft 
JE 
Administered via dialysate 
G5 
Most recent URR reading of 75 
or greater 
G6 
ESRD patient for whom less than six 
dialysis sessions have been provided 
in a month 
G7 
Pregnancy resulted from rape or 
incest or pregnancy certified by 
physician as life threatening 
GS 
Monitored anesthesia care (MAC) 
for deep complex, complicated, or 
markedly invasive surgical procedure 
G9 
Monitored anesthesia care for patient 
who has history of severe cardio-
pulmonary condition 
GA 
Waiver of liability statement 
issued as required by payer policy, 
individual case 
GB 
Claim being resubmitted for payment 
because it is no longer covered under 
a global payment demonstration 
GC 
This service has been performed in 
part by a resident under the direction 
of a teaching physician 
GE 
This service has been performed by 
a resident without the presence of a 
teaching physician under the primary 
care exceotion 
GF 
Non-physician (e.g., nurse practitioner 
(NP), certified registered nurse 
anesthetist (CRNA), certified 
registered nurse (CRN), clinical nurse 
specialist (CNS), physician assistant 
(PA)) services in a critical access 
hospital 
GG 
Performance and payment of 
a screening mammogram and 
diagnostic mammogram on the same 
patient, same dav 
GH 
Diagnostic mammogram converted 
from screening mammogram on 
same day 
GJ 
"Opt-out" physician or practitioner 
emergency or urgent service 
GK 
Reasonable and necessary item/service 
associated with a GA or GZ modifier 
GL 
Medically unnecessary upgrade 
provided instead of non-upgraded 
item, no charge, no advance 
beneficiary notice IABN) 
GM 
Multiple patients on one ambulance 
trip 
GN 
Services delivered under an 
outpatient speech language 
pathology plan of care 
GO 
Services delivered under an 
outpatient occupational therapy plan 
of care 
GP 
Services delivered under an outpatient 
physical therapy plan of care 
GQ 
Via asynchronous 
telecommunications system 
GR 
This service was performed in 
whole or in part by a resident in 
a department of veterans affairs 
medical center or clinic, supervised 
in accordance with VA policy 
GS 
Dosage of erythropoietin stimulating 
agent has been reduced and 
maintained in response to hematocrit 
or hemoglobin level 
GU 
Waiver of liability statement issued as 
required by payer policy, routine notice 
GV 
Attending physician not employed 
or paid under arrangement by the 
patient's hospice provider 
GW 
Service not related to the hospice 
patient's terminal condition 
GX 
Notice of liability issued, voluntary 
under payer policy 
GY 
Item or service statutorily excluded, 
does not meet the definition of any 
Medicare benefit or, for Non-Medicare 
insurers, is not a contract benefit 
GZ 
Item or service expected to be denied 
as not reasonable and necessary 
H9 
Court-ordered 
HA 
Child/adolescent program 
HB 
Adult program, non-geriatric 
HC 
Adult program, geriatric 
HD 
Pregnant/parenting women's program 
HE 
Mental health program 
HF 
Substance abuse program 
HG 
Opioid addiction treatment program 
HH 
Integrated mental health/substance 
abuse program 
HI 
Integrated mental health and 
intellectual disability/developmental 
disabilities program 
HJ 
Employee assistance program 
HK 
Specialized mental health programs 
for high-risk populations 
HL 
Intern 
HM 
Less than bachelor degree level 
HN 
Bachelor's degree level 
HO 
Master's degree level 
HP 
Doctoral level 
HQ 
Group setting 
HR 
Family/couple with client present 
HS 
Family/couple without client present 
HT 
Multi-disciplinary team 
HU 
Funded by child welfare agency 
HV 
Funded state addictions agency 
HW 
Funded by state mental health agency 
HX 
Funded by county/local agency 
HY 
Funded by juvenile justice agency 
HZ 
Funded by criminal justice agency 
J1 
Competitive acquisition program 
no-pay submission for a prescription 
number 
J2 
Competitive acquisition program, 
restocking of emergency drugs after 
emergency administration 
J3 
Competitive acquisition program 
(CAP), drug not available through 
cap as written, reimbursed under 
average sales price methodology 
J4 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS 
competitive bidding program that is 
furnished by a hospital upon discharge 
J5 
Off-the-shelf orthotic subject to 
DMEPOS competitive bidding 
program that is furnished as part of 
a physical therapist or occupational 
therapist professional service 
JA 
Administered intravenously 
JB 
Administered subcutaneously 
JC 
Skin substitute used as a graft 
JG 
Drug or biological acquired with 
340b drug pricing program discount, 
reported for informational purposes 
JK 
One month supply or less of drug or 
biological 
JL 
Three month supply of drug or 
biological 
JW 
Drug amount discarded/not 
administered to any patient 
JZ 
Zero drug amount discarded/not 
administered to any patient 
KO 
Lower extremity prosthesis functional 
level O - does not have the ability 
or potential to ambulate or transfer 
safely with or without assistance and 
a prosthesis does not enhance their 
quality of life or mobility 
K1 
Lower extremity prosthesis functional 
level 1 - has the ability or potential 
to use a prosthesis for transfers or 
ambulation on level surfaces at fixed 
cadence, typical of the limited and 
unlimited household ambulator 
K2 
Lower extremity prosthesis functional 
level 2 - has the ability or potential for 
ambulation with the ability to traverse 
low level environmental barriers such 
as curbs, stairs or uneven surfaces, 
typical of the limited community 
ambulator 
K3 
Lower extremity prosthesis functional 
level 3 - has the ability or potential 
for ambulation with variable cadence, 
typical of the community ambulator 
who has the ability to transverse most 
environmental barriers and may have 
vocational, therapeutic, or exercise 
activity that demands prosthetic 
utilization beyond simple locomotion 
K4 
Lower extremity prosthesis 
functional level 4 - has the ability or 
potential for prosthetic ambulation 
that exceeds the basic ambulation 
skills, exhibiting high impact, stress, 
or energy levels, typical of the 
prosthetic demands of the child, 
active adult, or athlete 
KA 
Add on option/accessory for 
wheelchair 
KB 
Beneficiary requested upgrade 
for ABN, more than 4 modifiers 
identified on claim 
KC 
Replacement of special power 
wheelchair interface 
KD 
Drug or biological infused through 
DME 
KE 
Bid under round one of the DMEPOS 
competitive bidding program for 
use with non-competitive bid base 
equipment 
KF 
Item designated by FDA as class Ill 
device 
KG 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS 
competitive bidding program number 1 
KH 
DMEPOS item, initial claim, purchase 
or first month rental 
Kl 
DMEPOS item, second or third 
month rental 
CPT® Modifiers 
Modifier 
Description 
22 
Increased Procedural Services 
23 
Unusual Anesthesia 
24 
Unrelated Evaluation and Management Service by the Same Physician or Other Qualified Health Care Professional During a 
Postoperative Period 
25 
Significant, Separately Identifiable Evaluation and Management Service by the Same Physician or Other Qualified Health Care 
Professional on the Same Dav of the Procedure or Other Service 
26 
Professional Component 
27 
Multiple Outpatient Hospital E/M Encounters on the Same Date 
32 
Mandated Services 
33 
Preventive Services 
47 
Anesthesia by Surgeon 
50 
Bilateral Procedure 
51 
Multiple Procedures 
52 
Reduced Services 
53 
Discontinued Procedure 
54 
Surgical Care Only 
55 
Postoperative Management Only 
56 
Preoperative Management Onlv 
57 
Decision for Surgery 
58 
Staged or Related Procedure or Service by the Same Physician or Other Qualified Health Care Professional During the Postoperative Period 
59 
Distinct Procedural Service 
62 
f----------- Two Surgeons 
63 
Procedure Performed on Infants less than 4 kg 
66 
Surgical Team 
73 
Discontinued Out-Patient Hospital/Ambulatory Surgery Center (ASC) Procedure Prior to the Administration of Anesthesia 
74 
Discontinued Out-Patient Hospital/Ambulatory Surgery Center (ASC) Procedure After Administration of Anesthesia 
76 
Reoeat Procedure or Service by Same Physician or Other Qualified Health Care Professional 
77 
Reoeat Procedure bv Another Phvsician or Other Qualified Health Care Professional 
78 
Unplanned Return to the Operating/Procedure Room by the Same Physician or Other Qualified Health Care Professional Following 
Initial Procedure for a Related Procedure During the Postoperative Period 
79 
I Unrelated Procedure or Service bv the Same Physician or Other Qualified Health Care Professional During the Postoperative Period 
80 
Assistant Surgeon 
81 
Minimum Assistant Surgeon 
82 
Assistant Surqeon (when qualified resident surgeon not available) 
90 
Reference (Outside) Laboratory 
91 
Repeat Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Test 
92 
Alternative Laboratory Platform Testing 
93 
Synchronous Telemedicine Service Rendered Via Telephone or Other Real-Time Interactive Audio-Only Telecommunications System 
I 
95 
Synchronous Telemedicine Service Rendered Via a Real-Time Interactive Audio and Video Telecommunications System 
96 
Habilitative Services 
97 
Rehabilitative Services 
99 -
1 Multiple Modifiers 
Category II Modifiers 
Modifier 
Description 
f---
Performance Measure Exclusion Modifier due to Medical Reasons 
1P 
2P 
Performance Measure Exclusion Modifier due to Patient Reasons 
3P 
i Performance Measure Exclusion Modifier due to System Reasons 
BP 
Performance Measure Reoorting Modifier - Action Not Performed, Reason Not Otherwise Specified 
HCPCS Modifiers 
Modifier 
Description 
Modifier 
Description 
Modifier 
Description 
-
A1 
Dressing for one wound 
AB 
Audiology service furnished 
AF 
Specialty physician 
A2 
Dressing for two wounds 
A3 
Dressing for three wounds 
A4 
Dressing for four wounds 
AS 
Dressing for five wounds 
A6 
Dressing for six wounds 
personally by an audiologist without 
a physician/npp order for non-acute 
hearing assessment unrelated to 
disequilibrium, or hearing aids, or 
examinations for the purpose of 
prescribing, fitting, or changing 
hearing aids; service may be 
AG 
Primary physician 
AH 
Clinical psychologist 
Al 
Principal physician of record 
AJ 
Clinical social worker 
AK 
Non participating physician 
AM 
Physician, team member service 
A7 
Dressing for seven wounds 
performed once every 12 months, 
AO 
Alternate payment method declined 
AB 
Dressing for eight wounds 
A9 
Dressing for nine or more wounds 
per beneficiary 
AD 
Medicai supervision by a physician: 
more than four concurrent 
by provider of service 
AP 
Determination of refractive state 
was not performed in the course 
AA 
Anesthesia services performed 
anesthesia procedures 
of diagnostic ophthalmological 
personally by anesthesiologist 
AE 
Registered dietician 
examination 
0 
Intro. 
r 
0 
Symb.& 
Conv. 
0 
Instructs. 
1 
HCPCS 
Proc. 
C 
New/Rev✓ 
d 
Del. 
Del.Codes· 
Crosswalk 
(j 
Anat. 
lllustr. 
H 
L. 
t,___,
Index 
s 
\__..., 
Tabular 
List 
1 
(_ 
A 
n 
A 
..__,, 
C 
si1>1pu;iddv 
L., 
E 
u 
u 
G 
0 
H 
--·- , .... 
't-=:::: .::::.::::.: 
Sll(Oq,, == 
l.lCR.Oi'St:CCJ Ed,:1c-i.,tr 
l;:,:.. 'l:aJiQ.l·. l:'31) 0:.'.I lfl1: lQ la:) 
0 
0 
0 
n 
() 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Practice toward perfection 
with Practicode by AAPC 
For New Coders: 
Cut a whole year off the 2-year experience requirement to remove your "A" 
(apprentice) status. Get hands-on coding practice in a risk-free environment coding real-world 
(redacted) cases, so you can thrive in your first job. 
For Experienced Coders: 
Expand your coding abilities and earn CEUs with Practicode's hands-on virtual experience. Practicode 
helps you identify and evaluate gaps in your skillset and gives you the practice and feedback you 
need to improve. 
For Businesses & Employers: 
Practicode manages medical coding assessments for you, enabling you to evaluate applicant abilities 
during the hiring process with assessments you can customize for your organization. 
Advance yourself. 
When it comes to growing your skills or evaluating new employees, Practicode was designed 
by coders and coding managers to give you exactly what you need - all in a very simple, 
easy-to-use solution. 
Visit aapc.com/practicode 
Certify yourself into 
a better position 
The first certification: 
Not only are AAPC students three times more likely to 
pass the certification exam - studies show that on 
average, AAPC-certified coders earn $10,000 more 
annually than their uncertified peers. 
Your next certification(s): 
As your career progresses, you can grow 
and validate your skillset with additional 
certifications. Studies consistently show 
that more certifications tend to 
command higher pay. 
-1 
__ , 
-
n 
r 
,-
I 
l 
n 
HCPCS Level II 
Expert 
Service/Supply Codes 
for Caregivers & Suppliers 
2024 
Publisher's Notice 
This book was current when it was published. Every reasonable effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information 
within these pages. The ultimate responsibility lies with readers to ensure they are using the codes and following applicable 
guidelines correctly. AAPC employees, agents, and staff make no representation, warranty, or guarantee that this compilation of 
information is error-free, and will bear no responsibility or liability for the results or consequences of the use of this code book. 
This book is a general summary that explains guidelines and principles in profitable, efficient healthcare organizations. 
U.S. Government Rights 
This product includes CPT", which is commercial technical data and/or computer data bases and/or commercial computer 
software and/or commercial computer software documentation, as applicable, which was developed exclusively at private expense
by the American Medical Association, 515 North State Street, Chicago, Illinois, 60610. U.S. Government rights to use, modify, 
reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose these technical data and/or computer data bases and/or computer software and/ 
or computer software documentation are subject to the limited rights restrictions of DFARS 252.227-7015(b)(2) (November 1995), 
as applicable, for U.S. Department of Defense procurements and the limited rights restrictions of FAR 52.227-14 (June 1987) and/ 
or subject to the restricted rights provision of FAR 52.227-14 (June 1987) and FAR 52.227-19 (June 1987), as applicable, and any 
applicable agency FAR Supplements, for non-Department of Defense Federal procurements. 
AMA Disclaimer 
CPT" copyright 2023 American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Fee schedules, relative value units, conversion factors, and/or related components are not assigned by the AMA, are not part 
of CPT", and the AMA is not recommending their use. The AMA does not directly or indirectly practice medicine or dispense 
medical services. The AMA assumes no liability for data contained or not contained herein. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. 
ACKN'OWLEDGEMENT 
Himanshu Arora, BE 
Sushanta Das, MBA 
Prashant Kumar, MBA 
Harshita Sharma, PT, PhD 
Rajendra Sharma, RN, CPC 
Jaspal Arora 
Leesa A. Israel, BA, CPC, CUC, CEMC, CPPM, CMBS, 
Approved Instructor, AAPC MACRA Proficient 
Lisa Meaney, BS, RHIT, CPC, CEDC 
Kuldeep Sharma 
Images/Illustrations by the following artists at stock.adobe.com 
Chandrashekhar Boreda, CPC 
Rahul Jain, MDSE 
Ganesh Prasad Sahoo 
Nishkant Sharma, CPC, AAPC MACRA Proficient 
4otograf 358859714 I Africa Studio 184146775 I Aksana 239987181 I alejomiranda 532605420 I Alex Photo 422828823 I alexonline 
42590870 I Alila Medical Media 159128157, 162112210, 162112221, 162481268, 163295083, 163503352, 163503377, 163503565, 165662571, 
166183968, 166184091, 166184134, 169655884, 363916756, 165660529 I Anastasiia Lavrentev 121806927 I Andrew Mayovskyy 54431043, 
49755450 I Anna Bogatyreva 394603279 I Axel Kock 453487637 I bigmousel08 137231751 I bilderzwerg 179260204 I blueringmedia 
52637640, 53031833, 53031874 I CLIPAREA.com 44026164 I Derya Cakirsoy 133588811 I designua 112254556, 212243208, 58892769, 
76150406 I Firat 557992647 I frrlbt 83027086 I Gennadiy Poznyakov 35486250, 35486278 I goodapp 49499873 I goodmoments 
140203433 I Grzegorz 512279148 I HANK GREBE 187069977, 187070000, 274154007, 368352931 I hdcphoto 39695030 I inspiring. 
__, 
team 519147191, 528681745 I Ivan Shenets 330141356 I joshya 88410514, 86502055 I JPC-PROD 65134049 I juanrvelasco 51457874 I 
Julian Rovagnati 17861215 I Leo Lintang 49966999 I LIGHTFIELD STUDIOS 449348588 I Liliia 49046755 I Liudmila 210341081 I 
Lumos sp 21638884 I Macrovector 583589877 I magemasher 127143423 I marrishuanna 483801447 I mikiradic 43653076, 43805117 I 
mrhighsky 130878591 I Naeblys 157392015 I Nattapon 531294774 I nmfotograf275778197 I Oleksandr Pokusai 107254297, 107931726 I 
Olga 273212800, 273213785, 279115975, 279207728, 346761760 I Olha 500136861 I pikovit 509692223, 401470365 I pittawut 131848889 I 
praisaeng 78612370, 42529950 I rob3000 337464884, 573269937 I sakurra 626036578 I samunella 619055463 I skorpionik00 480148309 
I snapgalleria 53822977 I sofikol4 293149799 I stockshoppe 61710170, 61710400, 62415251, 62415297, 63814016 I Sutthisak 586313654 
I Swapan 80087216 I toyotoyo 223873226 I Tsuyna 280479279, 300610754 I udaix 501770942, 501770962 I VectorMine 192832346, 
316686175, 362529159, 382958001 I vonuk 124477322 I yang 223985368 I zlikovec 67501905 
Get updates, coding tips, and corrections for this book at www.aapc.com/codebook_updates. 
© 2023 AAPC 
2233 South Presidents Dr. Suite F, Salt Lake City, UT 84120 
800-626-2633, Fax 801-236-2258, www.aapc.com
ISBN 978-1-646318-193 
E-Book ISBN 978-1-646318-247
CPC-, CIC, COCN, CPC-P", CPMA", CPCON, and CPPM" are trademarks of AAPC. 
__, 
Table of Contents 
Introduction 
• Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) .... .373 
• Features .................................................................. 3 
• Medical Services (M0001-M 1370) ............ .393 
Symbols and Conventions ............................ 4 
• Pathology and Laboratory Services
Instructions for Using This Code Book ......... 5 
(P2028-P9615) ................................................ .411 
HCPCS Level II Coding Procedures ............... 6 
• Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) ........... .415 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 ....... 11 
• Diagnostic Radiology Services
Deleted Codes Crosswalk ............................ 27 
(R0070-R0076) ................................................ .435 
Index to Services, Supplies, 
Equipment, Drugs ....................................... 63 
• Temporary National Codes
(Non-Medicare) (50012-59999) ................ .437 
Tabular List 
• Transportation Services Including
• National Codes Established for State
Medicaid Agencies (Tl 000-T5999) .......... .461 
Ambulance (A0021-A0999) ......................... 113 
• Coronavirus Diagnostic Panel
• Medical and Surgical Supplies
(U0001-U0002) ............................................... .467 
(A2001-A8004) ................................................. 117 
• Vision Services (V2020-V2799) ................. .469 
• Administrative, Miscellaneous and
• Hearing Services (V5008-V5364) .............. .473 
lnvestigational (A9150-A9999) .................. 143 
Appendices 
• Enteral and Parenteral Therapy
(84034-89999) ···································· ............. 1 51 
Appendix A Table of Drugs 
and 8iologicals ...................... .479 
• Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-C9899) ................. 155 
Appendix 8 HCPCS Level II Modifiers, 
• Durable Medical Equipment
Lay Descriptions, 
(E0100-E8002) .................................................. 181 
and Tips .................................... 501 
Procedures / Professional Services 
• Appendix C List of Abbreviations ........... .595 
(G0008-G9999) ................................................ 211 
• Appendix D Place of Service/
• Alcohol and Drug Abuse Treatment
Type of Service ..................... .599 
(H0001-H2041) ................................................ 295 
• Appendix E APC Status Indicators .......... 603 
• Drugs Administered Other Than Oral
Method (J0120-J8999) .................................. 299 
• Chemotherapy Drugs (J9000-J9999) ...... .333 
Appendix F ASC Payment Indicators ..... 605 
• Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2
Correct Coding Edits ........... 607 
• Durable Medical Equipment (DME)
(K0001-K1036) ................................................ .341 
Appendix H General Correct 
Coding Policies ...................... 617 
• Orthotic Procedures and Services
(LO 11 2-L4631) .................................................. 349 
• Appendix I Publication 100
References .............................. 625 
1 
This page intentionally left blank 
Introduction 
This Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) Level II code book goes beyond the basics to help you to code 
accurately and efficiently. In addition to including a customized Alphabetic Index and Tabular List for services, supplies, durable 
medical equipment, and drugs which the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) developed, we include the 
following features: 
Features 
We've crafted a select set of bonus features based on requests from coders in the field as well as the recommendations of our 
core group of veteran coding educators. Features that you'll benefit from page after page include: 
•
HCPCS Level II Coding Procedures guide from CMS to help you to better understand HCPCS Level II codes
Comprehensive list of new/revised/deleted codes for 2024
•
CPT® crosswalk codes for select HCPCS Level II G codes
Deleted codes crosswalk for 2024
•
60 stick-on tabs to mark specific sections of the book
Symbols showing which codes have restrictions based on age or sex of the patient
Medicare coverage and reimbursement alerts
•
APC status indicators and ASC payment indicators
•
HCPCS Level II modifiers with lay descriptions and coding tips
Updated and enhanced illustrations of body systems at the front of the book so you don't have to search the code book for
these large color images of body systems
Highlighted coding instructional and informational notes help you recognize important code usage guidance for specific
sections
•
Intuitive color-coded symbols and alerts identify new and revised codes and critical coding and reimbursement issues
quickly
Symbols in Index showing each new code
A user-friendly page design, including dictionary-style headers, color bleed tabs, and legend keys
Additionally, our dedicated team drew on their years of experience using code books to develop this book's user friendly symbols, 
highlighting, color coding, and tabs, all designed to help you find the information you need quickly. 
Let Us Know What You Think 
Our goal for this code book is to support those involved in the business side of healthcare, helping them to do their jobs and do 
them well. We'd appreciate your feedback, including your suggestions for what you'll need in a HCPCS Level II resource, so we 
can be sure our code books serve your needs. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
3 
Symbols and Conventions 
Citations to AHA's Coding Clinic® for 
HCPCS Level II 
AHA's Coding Clinic®, a quarterly newsletter, is the official 
publication for coding guidelines and advice as designated by 
the four Cooperating Parties (American Hospital Association, 
American Health Information Management Association, 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services {CMS), and 
National Center for Health Statistics) and the Editorial Advisory 
Board. 
We've marked codes with related Coding Clinic® articles with a 
citation that includes the year and quarter of the issue. 
Symbols and Conventions Used in the 
Code Book Include: 
2024 HCPCS Level II Code Updates 
Modifier Alerts Showing Applicable 
Modifiers for a HCPCS Level II Code 
DME Modifier - Alert appears under the code descriptor 
Symbols for Age and Sex Codes 
When relevant, you'll see the following symbols to the right 
of a code descriptor. We based symbol use on Medicare's 
Outpatient Code Editor (OCE). 
Female code symbol 
Male code symbol 
Age 
Symbols and Alerts Related to Services, 
Supplies, or Equipment 
• 
New code 
When relevant, you'll see the following symbols to the right of 
Revised Code 
2024 New Index Entries 
Symbols and Alerts Related to Medicare 
or Carrier Coverage and Reimbursement 
When relevant, you'll see the following symbols and alerts to 
the left of a code or beside or under the code descriptor: 
(!I 
Carrier judgment 
l!I 
Special coverage instructions apply 
D 
Not payable by Medicare 
w 
Non-covered by Medicare 
u 
Non-covered by Medicare statute 
A2-Z3 = 
ASC Payment Indicator 
A -Y= 
APC Status Indicator 
ASC= 
ASC Approved Procedure 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Other carrier priced 
Reasonable charge 
Price established using national RVUs 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Price established by carriers 
Statute references 
BETOS code and descriptor 
References to Pub 100 (non-dental codes) -Alert appears 
under the code descriptor. 
4 
code descriptors: 
Paid under the DME fee schedule 
l.mJ 
Merit-based Incentive Payment System {MIPS) code 
MIPS data in this code book is from the latest update from 
CMS at the time this book went to print. Refer to the CMS 
website for the latest updates on MIPS reporting. 
Instructions for Using This Code Book 
Understand Code Structure to Choose 
the Most Specific Code 
HCPCS Level II codes are made up of five alphanumeric 
characters, starting with a letter that represents a category of 
similar codes, followed by four numbers. 
The Tabular List arranges codes in alphanumeric order, 
starting with codes beginning with the letter A. 
Code descriptors identify a category of like items or services 
and typically do not identify specific products or brand/trade 
names. 
Code Services, Supplies, Equipment, and 
Drugs With Confidence Following This 
Approach 
►The first step in choosing the. proper HCPCS Level II
code is reading the medical documentation to identify
the service, supply, equipment, or drug that the provider
documents and confirms.
Be sure to check online or hard copy references, 
such as medical dictionaries and anatomy 
resources, to look up unfamiliar terms. 
►Next, decide which main term you will search in the
Index based on the patient's specific case. You can look
under the name of the service (magnetic resonance
angiography, EMG), supply (dialysis drain bag, filler),
equipment (bathtub, cane), drug (hydrocortisone,
ipratropium bromide), the body site involved (hip, knee),
or the type of service (laboratory tests, oncology).
►Once you find the term in the Index, note the
recommended code. Start with the main term and
review any available subterms. Cross-reference all
codes listed, whether it is one code, a series of codes
separated by commas, or a code range separated by
a hyphen. Pay attention to the Index "see" convention
that directs you to look elsewhere in the Index to find
the code or the "see a/so" convention that directs you to
look in an additional place to find the code.
►Turn to that code in the Tabular List, and read the full
code descriptor for correct code assignment.
►Before making your final code decision, review the 
surrounding codes to be sure there isn't a more
appropriate code available. Pay attention to the "see"
convention in the Tabular List that directs you to look
elsewhere to find the code or the "see a/so" convention
that directs you to look in an additional place to find the
code.
►Finally, take a moment to confirm that your code choice
complies with the philosophy of ethical coding. Never
report a HCPCS Level II code simply because it will
support reimbursement from a payer. Report only those
codes the documentation supports.
►When searching the Table of Drugs and Biologicals,
search for the name of the drug, then the unit and
route to find the drug code to cross-reference to the
Tabular List.
5 
HCPCS Level II Coding Procedures 
HEALTHCARE COMMON PROCEDURE 
CODING SYSTEM (HCPCS) LEVEL II CODING 
PROCEDURES 
This information provides a description of the procedures the 
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) follows in 
processing HCPCS Level II applications and making coding 
decisions. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 
Please submit an inquiry to the HCPCS mailbox at 
HCPCS@cms.hhs.gov. 
A. HCPCS BACKGROUND INFORMATION
Each year, in the United States, health care insurers process 
over 5 billion claims for payment. For Medicare and other 
health insurance programs to ensure that these claims are 
processed in an orderly and consistent manner, standardized 
coding systems are essential. The HCPCS Level II Code Set 
is one of the standard code sets used for this purpose. The 
HCPCS is divided into two principal subsystems, referred to 
as level I and level II of the HCPCS. Level I of the HCPCS 
is comprised of CPT® (Current Procedural Terminology), a 
numeric coding system maintained by the American Medical 
Association (AMA). The CPT® is a uniform coding system 
consisting of descriptive terms and identifying codes that are 
used primarily to identify medical services and procedures 
furnished by physicians and other health care professionals. 
These health care professionals use the CPT® to identify 
services and procedures for which they bill public or private 
health insurance programs. Decisions regarding the addition, 
deletion, or revision of CPT® codes are made by the AMA. 
The CPT® codes are republished and updated annually by the 
AMA. Level I of the HCPCS, the CPT® codes, does not include 
codes needed to separately report medical items or services 
that are regularly billed by suppliers other than physicians. 
Level II of the HCPCS is a standardized coding system that is 
used primarily to identify products, supplies, and services not 
included in the CPT® codes, such as ambulance services and 
durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies 
(DMEPOS) when used outside a physician's office. Because 
Medicare and other insurers cover a variety of services, 
supplies, and equipment that are not identified by CPT® codes, 
the level II HCPCS codes were established for submitting 
claims for these items. The development and use of level II 
of the HCPCS began in the 1980's. Level II codes are also 
referred to as alpha-numeric codes because they consist of 
a single alphabetical letter followed by 4 numeric digits, while 
CPT® codes are identified using 5 numeric digits. 
A. HISTORY
The development and use of Level II of the HCPCS began 
in the 1980s. Concurrent to the use of Level II codes, there 
were also Level Ill codes. HCPCS Level Ill were developed 
and used by Medicaid State agencies, Medicare contractors, 
and private insurers in their specific programs or local areas 
of jurisdiction. For purposes of Medicare, Level Ill codes were 
also referred to as local codes. Local codes were established 
when an insurer preferred that suppliers use a local code to 
identify a service, for which there is no Level I or Level II code 
rather than using a "miscellaneous or not otherwise classified ' 
code." 
6 
HIPAA required the Secretary to adopt standards for coding 
systems that are used for reporting health care transactions. 
Thus, regulations were published in the Federal Register on 
August 17, 2000 (65 FR 50312), to implement standardized 
coding systems under HIPAA. These regulations provided for 
the elimination of Level Ill local codes by October 2002, at 
which time, the Level I and Level II code sets could be used. 
The elimination of local codes was postponed, as a result of 
section 532(a) of BIPA, which continued the use of local codes 
through December 31, 2003. 
The regulation that was published on August 17, 2000 
(45 CFR 162.1002), to implement the HIPAA requirement for 
standardized coding systems established the HCPCS Level II 
codes as the standardized coding system for describing and 
identifying health care equipment and supplies in health care 
transactions that are not within the CPT® code set jurisdiction. 
The HCPCS Level II coding system was selected as the 
standardized coding system because of its wide acceptance 
among both public and private insurers. 
B. AUTHORITY
The Secretary of the Department of Health and Human 
Services has delegated authority under the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) to the 
AMA and CMS to maintain and distribute HCPCS Level I and 
Level II codes, respectively. 
C. HCPCS LEVEL II CODES
The HCPCS Level II coding system is a comprehensive, 
standardized system that classifies similar products that are 
medical in nature into categories for the purpose of efficient 
claims processing. For each alpha-numeric HCPCS code, 
there is descriptive terminology that identifies a category of 
like items. These codes are used primarily for billing purposes. 
For example, suppliers use HCPCS Level II codes to identify 
items on claim forms that are being billed to a private or 
public health insurer. Currently, there are national HCPCS 
codes representing almost 8,000 separate categories of like 
items or services that encompass products from different 
manufacturers. When submitting claims, suppliers are required 
to use one of these codes to identify the items they are billing. 
HCPCS is a system for identifying items and certain services. 
It is not a methodology or system for making coverage or 
payment determinations, and the existence of a code does 
not, of itself, determine coverage or non-coverage for an item 
or service. While these codes are used for billing purposes, 
decisions regarding the addition, deletion, or revision of 
HCPCS codes are made independent of the process for 
making determinations regarding coverage and payment. 
With regard to the Medicare program, if specific Medicare 
coverage or payment indicators or values have not been 
established for any new HCPCS codes, this may be because a 
national Medicare coverage determination and/or fee schedule 
amounts have not yet been established for these items. This 
is neither an indicator of Medicare coverage or non-coverage. 
In !hee cases, until national Medicare coverage and payment 
guidelines have been established for these codes the 
Medicare coverage and payment determinations fr these 
items may be made based on the discretion of the Medicare 
contractors processing claims for these items. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
HCPCS Level II Coding Procedures 
D. TYPES OF HCPCS LEVEL II CODES
There are several types of HCPCS Level II codes depending 
on the purpose for the codes and the entity with responsibility 
for establishing and maintaining them. 
HCPCS National Codes 
National HCPCS Level II codes are maintained by CMS. CMS 
is responsible for making decisions about additions, revisions, 
and deletions to the national alpha-numeric codes. These 
codes are for the use of all private and public health insurers. 
HCPCS Level II applications are reviewed by a group 
comprised of Federal government employees who represent 
the major components of CMS, as well as other pertinent 
Federal agencies such as the Department of Veterans Affairs 
and the Department of Defense at regularly scheduled 
meetings to determine whether coding requests warrant a 
change to the HCPCS Level II national code set. This group of 
reviewers informs CMS' decisions. 
The application and instructions for requesting that CMS add, 
revise, or discontinue a HCPCS Level II code can be accessed 
at: https://mearis.cms.gov/public/home. CMS may also issue 
codes based on the needs of its programs or other federal 
programs. 
Dental Codes 
Dental codes, or D codes, are a separate category of national 
codes. The Current Dental Terminology (CDT) is published, 
copyrighted, and licensed by the American Dental Association 
(ADA). The CDT lists codes for billing for dental procedures 
and supplies. While the CDT codes are considered HCPCS 
Level II codes, decisions regarding the revision, deletion, or 
addition of CDT codes are made by the ADA, not CMS. 
Miscellaneous Codes 
National codes also include "miscellaneous/not otherwise 
classified" codes. These codes are used when a supplier is 
submitting a bill for an item or service and there is no existing 
national code that adequately describes the item or service 
being billed. The importance of miscellaneous codes is that 
they allow suppliers to begin billing immediately for a service or 
item as soon as it is allowed to be marketed by the Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA), even though there is no distinct 
code that describes the service or item. A miscellaneous 
code may be assigned by insurers for use during the period 
of time a request for a new code is being considered under 
the HCPCS review process. The use of miscellaneous codes 
also helps avoid the inefficiency and administrative burden of 
assigning distinct codes for items or services that are rarely 
furnished or for which few claims are expected to be filed. 
Because of miscellaneous codes, the absence of a specific 
code for a distinct category of products does not affect the 
ability of a supplier to submit claims to private or public 
insurers. 
In those cases, in which a supplier or manufacturer has 
been advised to use a miscellaneous code because there 
is no existing code that describes a given product, and the 
supplier or manufacturer believes that a new code is needed, 
the supplier or manufacturer may submit a request to modify 
the HCPCS in accordance with the established process. 
The standard process for requesting a revision to the HCPCS 
Level II codes is explained later in this document. 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Other Notable Codes 
•
The C codes (pass-through) were established
to permit implementation of section 201 of the
Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999. HCPCS
C codes are utilized to report drugs, biologicals,
magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and
devices used for CMS' Medicare Hospital Outpatient
Prospective Payment System (HOPPS). HCPCS
C codes are reported for device categories, new
technology procedures, and drugs, biologicals, and
radiopharmaceuticals that do not have other HCPCS
code assignments. Non-OPPS hospitals, Critical
Access Hospitals (CAHs), Indian Health Service (IHS)
hospitals, and hospitals located in American Samoa,
Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin
Islands, as well as Maryland waiver hospitals, may
report these codes at their discretion.
For information about the HOPPS pass-through
process, please visit the HOPPS website:
https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for­
Service- PaymenUHospitalOutpatientPPS/index
•
The G codes are used to identify professional health
care procedures and services that would otherwise be
coded in CPT®-4 (the current version of CPT® codes)
but for which there are no CPT®-4 codes. CMS does
not have an application process for G codes, as they
are established internally by CMS to support Medicare
claims processing needs. As G codes are part of the
national HCPCS Level II code set, they may also be
used by non-Medicare insurers.
•
The G codes and C codes are considered HCPCS
Level II codes and as such, these codes, and changes
to them, are included in CMS' HCPCS Level II Updates
published by CMS. The code application procedures
described in this document are not for use to apply for
changes to HCPCS C codes and G codes.
•
The Q codes are established to identify drugs,
biologicals, and medical equipment or services not
identified by national HCPCS Level II codes, but
for which codes are needed for Medicare claims
processing.
•
The K codes are established for use by the Durable
Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative
Contractors (DME MACs) when current national
codes do not include the codes needed to implement
a DME MAC medical review policy. For example,
codes other than the current, existing national
codes may be needed by the DME MACs to identify
certain product categories and supplies necessary
for establishing appropriate regional medical review
coverage policies.
Code Modifiers 
HCPCS code modifiers are established internally by CMS to 
facilitate accurate Medicare claims processing. Modifiers are 
assigned for use when the information provided by a HCPCS 
code descriptor needs to be supplemented to identify specific 
circumstances that may apply to an item or service. For 
example, the UE modifier is used when the item identified by 
a HCPCS code is "used equipment," and the NU modifier is 
used for "new equipment." The HCPCS Level II modifiers are 
either alpha-numeric or two letters. HCPCS code modifiers 
are published as part of the HCPCS code set at https://www. 
cms.gov/Medicare/Coding/HCPCSReleaseCodeSets/Alpha­
Numeric- HCPCS. The modifiers appear at the beginning of 
the file, before alpha-numeric codes. 
7 
HCPCS Code Assignment Following Medicare National 
Coverage Determination (NCD) 
Pursuant to section 1862(I)(3)(C)(iv) of the Social Security Act 
(added by section 731 (a) of the Medicare Modernization Act), 
CMS identifies an appropriate existing code category and/or 
establishes a new code category to describe the item that is 
the subject of a National Coverage Determination (NCO). 
Effective July 1, 2004, CMS' procedures are as follows: 
1. 
Assignment of an existing code: When CMS
determines that an item is already identified by an
existing HCPCS code category, but was previously 
not covered, CMS will assign the item to the existing 
code category and ensure that the coverage indicator 
assigned to the code category accurately reflects 
Medicare policy regarding coverage for the item. 
Section 731 of the MMA does not require that a
new code category or a product specific code be
created for an item simply because a new coverage
determination was made, without regard to codes
available in the existing code set.
2.
Assignment of a New Code: When CMS determines 
that a new code category is appropriate, CMS
will make every effort to establish, publish, and
implement the new code at the time the final coverage
determination is made.
3.
Assignment of a Miscellaneous Code: Under certain 
circumstances, the assignment of an item to a
miscellaneous code may be necessary. A number 
of miscellaneous codes already exist under various 
headings throughout the HCPCS Level II code set.
When a new code is appropriate, but the change 
cannot be implemented and incorporated into billing
and claims processing systems at the time the 
final NCO decision memorandum is released, an
unclassified code may be assigned in the interim, until 
a new code can be implemented, in order to ensure
that claims can be processed for the item. The timing 
of implementation of new codes relative to the date of 
the coverage determination depends on a variety of
factors, some of which are not within the control of the
code set maintainers. One such example is when the 
timing of the coverage determination is such that the 
publication deadline for the next update is missed. 
E. REQUESTING A REVISION TO THE
HCPCS LEVEL II CODES
Anyone may submit a request for modifying the HCPCS 
Level II national code set. CMS' HCPCS Level II application 
instructions can be accessed at: https://mearis.cms.gov/public/ 
home. 
As part of the application, the applicant should also submit 
any descriptive material, including the manufacturer's product 
literature and information that the applicant thinks would 
be helpful in furthering CMS' understanding of the medical 
features of the item for which a coding revision is requested. 
Applications that are received and determined by CMS to 
be complete by the deadline will be considered for inclusion 
in that cycle. Applications received after the deadline will be 
considered for the subsequent coding cycle. Applications 
received by the deadline that are determined to be incomplete 
will also be declined and the applicant should submit a 
completed application in a subsequent coding cycle. CMS 
will make every effort to complete the review within the 
applicable coding cycle for all timely and complete code 
8 
HCPCS Level II Coding Procedures 
applications. However, it should be understood that on the 
rare occasion a particularly complex or multi-faceted decision 
requires additional evaluation beyond the timeframe of the 
coding cycle, CMS maintains the flexibility at its discretion to 
continue consideration of that application into the next coding 
cycle. Examples of circumstances under which application 
consideration may be extended to the next coding cycle may 
include, but are not limited to, coding considerations that 
require in-depth clinical or other research and complicated 
claims adjudication scenarios. 
There are three types of coding revisions to the HCPCS that 
can be requested: 
1.
That a new code be added. This could include
requests to split an existing code category into its 
components or into subcategories;
2. 
That the language used to describe an existing code 
be changed: 
When there is an existing code, a request can be 
made when a stakeholder believes that the descriptor
for the code needs to be revised to provide a better
description of the category of products represented by 
the code. 
3. 
That an existing code be discontinued.
When an existing code becomes obsolete or is duplicative of 
another code, a request can be made to discontinue the code. 
This could include requests to combine existing codes. 
The electronic application intake system, Medicare Electronic 
Application Request Information System (MEARIS ™), is 
available for HCPCS Level II Q4 2021 and 81 2022 application 
submissions, with application submissions due no later than 
September 20, 2021 and January 4, 2022, respectively. The 
HCPCS Level II Application form designed for MEARIS ™ 
is similar to the current OMB-approved paper application 
(CMS-10224, OMB-0938-1042). The CMS HCPCS Level II 
Modification to Code Set Form can be accessed at: https:// 
mearis.cms.gov/public/home. 
Moving forward, CMS will only accept HCPCS Level II 
applications submitted via MEARIS™. Applications submitted 
through the HCPCS application mailbox will no longer be 
considered. Within MEARIS ™, we have built in several 
resources to support applicants: 
•
Please refer to the "Resources" section for guidance
regarding the application submission process at: 
https://mearis.cms.gov/public/resources.
•
Technical support is available under "Useful Links" at
the bottom of the MEARIS ™ 
•
Application related questions can be submitted
to CMS using the form available under 
"Contact" at: https://mearis.cms.gov/public/
resources?app=HCPCS.
•
The time required for application submission, 
including the time needed to gather relevant
information as well as to complete the form, is
estimated to be roughly around 10 hours per
submission. Applicants are, therefore, encouraged to 
start in advance of the due date to ensure adequate 
time for submission. 
Application submission through MEARIS ™ will not only help 
CMS track applications and streamline the review process, but 
it will also create efficiencies for applicants when compared to 
the previous paper submission process. 
HCPCS Level II Coding Procedures 
Evaluating HCPCS Level II Coding Applications 
CMS applies the following criteria to determine when there is 
no demonstrated need for a new or modified code or the need 
to remove a code: 
1.
When an existing code adequately describes the
item in a coding request, no new or modified code is
established. An existing code adequately describes
an item in a coding request when the existing code
describes items with the following:
•
Functions similar to the item in the coding
request.
•
No significant therapeutic distinctions from the
item in the coding request.
2.
When an existing code describes items that provide
almost the same functionality with only minor
distinctions from the item in the coding request, the
item in the coding request may be grouped with that
code and the code descriptor modified to reflect the
distinctions.
3.
A code is not established for an item that is used
only in the inpatient setting or for an item that is not
diagnostic or therapeutic in nature.
4.
A new or modified code is not established for an item
that is regulated by the FDA, unless the FDA allows
the item to be marketed. Documentation of FDA
approval is required to be submitted with the coding
request application.
5.
Applications for non-drug items that are not regulated
by the FDA and also not yet available in the U.S.
market will be considered incomplete and will not be
processed.
6.
The determination to remove a code is based on 
CMS' consideration of whether a code is obsolete
(for example, items no longer are used, other more
specific codes have been added) or duplicative
and no longer useful (for example, new codes are
established that better describe items identified by
existing codes).
In developing its decisions, CMS uses the criteria mentioned 
above. Cost or pricing is not a factor. 
HCPCS Level II Submission Deadlines 
Beginning in 2023, HCPCS Level II application submission 
deadlines will align with the first business day of each quarter 
(January, April, July and October) for drugs and biological 
product applications and the first business day of January 
and July for non-drug and non-biological items and services 
applications. Please visit the MEARIS™ homepage at https:// 
mearis.cms.gov/public/home or the MEARIS™ HCPCS Level II 
Resources page for specific HCPCS Level II application 
deadlines at https://mearis.cms.gov/public/ resources. 
To be considered in the applicable cycle, applications must be 
submitted by the deadlines provided below. 
Quarterly Coding Cycles for Drugs or Biologicals: 
First quarterly cycle 
January 2, 2024 11 :59 PM EST 
Second quarterly cycle 
April 1, 2024 11 :59 PM EST 
Third quarterly cycle 
Fourth quarterly cycle 
July 1, 2024 11 :59 PM EST 
October 1 , 2024 11 :59 PM EST 
Bi-annual Coding Cycles for Non-drug, Non-Biological 
Items or Services: 
First bi-annual cycle 
Second bi-annual cycle 
Requirements 
January 2, 2024 11 :59 PM EST 
July 1, 2024 11 :59 PM EST 
Applicants may submit an application to establish, revise, 
or discontinue a HCPCS code using the online electronic 
application form. In addition to providing the required 
information in the application, please attach descriptive 
material that you think would be helpful in furthering CMS' 
understanding of the medical benefits of the product for which 
a coding modification is being requested. 
Applications claiming a 'significant therapeutic distinction' 
must include relevant substantiating clinical information that 
distinguishes the product from other, similar products (refer to 
'Significant Therapeutic Distinction' on the application). The 
clinical information must be attached to the application. 
Applicants may submit more than one HCPCS application, but 
a separate application is required for each coding action, even 
if they are related. Only one coding request per application will 
be accepted. 
Final Decisions for All HCPCS Level II Applications: 
CMS is responsible for making the final decisions pertaining to 
requests for additions, deletions, and revisions to the HCPCS 
Level II codes. These decisions may include: 
1.
The request to establish a new national code has
been approved.
2.
The request to revise an existing national code has
been approved.
3.
The request to discontinue an existing national code
has been approved.
4.
A change to the national codes has been approved
that reflects, completely or in part, the coding request.
Examples of circumstances under which a change
to coding might reflect, in part, the coding request
include the addition of a single new code when the
incoming request was to establish a series of related
codes (e.g., for different package sizes); or addition of
a new code that includes a dose descriptor reflecting
the lowest common denominator that could be
billed in multiples, as per CMS' longstanding coding
convention, when the incoming request specified a
different dose descriptor.
5.
The request for a new code has not been approved
because the scope of the request necessitates that
additional consideration be given to the request
before CMS reaches a final decision.
6.
The request for a new national code has not been
approved because there already is an existing code
that describes the product.
7. 
The request for a code has not been approved
because the product is not used by health care
providers for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes.
8. 
The request for a code has not been approved
because the code requested is for capital equipment.
9. 
The request for a code has not been approved
because the product is an integral part of another
service and the code for that service includes the
product.
9 
10. The request for a revision to the language that
describes the current code has not been approved
because it does not improve the code descriptor.
11. The request for a new code has not been approved
because the product is not primarily medical in nature.
12. The request for a code has not been approved
because the product is used exclusively in the
inpatient hospital setting.
13. The request for a code has not been approved
because it is inappropriate for inclusion in the HCPCS
Level II code set and a request should be submitted
independently to another coding authority (e.g., AMA
for CPT® coding, ADA for CDT coding)
CMS will include the reasoning for reaching its decision, along 
with the decision. 
Any applicant who disagrees with CMS' final HCPCS 
coding decision may submit a new request in a subsequent 
coding cycle. Applicants are encouraged to provide any new 
information that may be helpful in explaining why CMS' prior 
decision should be changed. 
F. AVAILABILITY OF HCPCS LEVEL II UPDATES
As of April 2020, the Alpha-Numeric HCPCS File is a quarterly 
file. Please see the HCPCS Quarterly Update webpage for 
those updates. https://www.cms.gov/medicare/coding-billing/ 
healthcare-common-procedure-system/quarterly-update. 
HCPCS Webpage Updates 
As all HCPCS Level II updates are now fully searchable and 
sortable electronic files, CMS will no longer publish the Table 
of Drugs and HCPCS Index as part of the HCPCS quarterly 
updates. 
Additionally, due to the establishment of complete HCPCS 
quarterly files beginning in 2020, CMS is removing the "Other 
Codes (other than C and G HCPCS codes)" section from the 
HCPCS Quarterly Update page. The information contained in 
this section has been incorporated into the annual HCPCS file 
for the appropriate year. For more information go to https:// 
www.cms.gov/medicare/coding-billing/healthcare-common­
procedure-system/alpha-numeric. 
10 
HCPCS Level II Coding Procedures 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
NEW CODES 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
A2019 
Kerecis omega3 marigen shield, per square centimeter 
A6557 
Gradient compression stocking, thigh length, 30-40 
A2020 
Ac5 advanced wound system (ac5) 
mmhg, custom, each 
A2021 
Neomatrix, per square centimeter 
A2022 
lnnovaburn or innovamatrix xi, per square centimeter 
A2023 
lnnovamatrix pd, 1 mg 
A2024 Resolve matrix, per square centimeter 
A2025 
Miro3d, per cubic centimeter 
A6558 
Gradient compression stocking, thigh length, 40 mmhg 
or greater, custom, each 
A6559 
Gradient compression stocking, full length/chap style, 
18-30 mmhg, custom, each
A6560 
Gradient compression stocking, full length/chap style, 
30-40 mmhg, custom, each 
A4287 
Disposable collection and storage bag for breast milk, 
any size, any type, each 
A6561 
Gradient compression stocking, full length/chap style, 
40 mmhg or greater, custom, each 
A4341 
Indwelling intraurethral drainage device with valve, 
patient inserted, replacement only, each 
A6562 
Gradient compression stocking, waist length, 18-30 
mmhg, custom, each 
A4342 Accessories for patient inserted indwelling intraurethral 
drainage device with valve, replacement only, each 
A6563 
Gradient compression stocking, waist length, 30-40 
mmhg, custom, each 
A4457 
Enema tube, with or without adapter, any type, 
replacement only, each 
A6564 Gradient compression stocking, waist length, 40 mmhg 
or greater, custom, each 
A4468 
Exsufflation belt, includes all supplies and accessories 
A6565 Gradient compression gauntlet, custom, each 
A4540 
Distal transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator, 
stimulates peripheral nerves of the upper arm 
A4541 
Monthly supplies for use of device coded at E0733 
A6566 
Gradient compression garment, neck/head, each 
A6567 
Gradient compression garment, neck/head, custom, 
each 
A4542 
Supplies and accessories for external upper limb 
tremor stimulator of the peripheral nerves of the wrist 
A6568 Gradient compression garment, torso and shoulder, 
each 
A4560 
Neuromuscular electrical stimulator (nmes), 
disposable, replacement only 
A6569 
Gradient compression garment, torso/shoulder, 
custom, each 
A6520 
Gradient compression garment, glove, padded, for 
nighttime use, each 
A6521 
Gradient compression garment, glove, padded, for 
A6570 
Gradient compression garment, genital region, each 
A6571 
Gradient compression garment, genital region, custom, 
each 
nighttime use, custom, each 
A6522 
Gradient compression garment, arm, padded, for 
nighttime use, each 
A6572 
Gradient compression garment, toe caps, each 
A6573 
Gradient compression garment, toe caps, custom, 
each 
A6523 
Gradient compression garment, arm, padded, for 
nighttime use, custom, each 
A6524 
Gradient compression garment, lower leg and foot, 
padded, for nighttime use, each 
A6525 
Gradient compression garment, lower leg and foot, 
padded, for nighttime use, custom, each 
A6526 
Gradient compression garment, full leg and foot, 
padded, for nighttime use, each 
A6527 
Gradient compression garment, full leg and foot, 
padded, for nighttime use, custom, each 
A6528 
Gradient compression garment, bra, for nighttime use, 
each 
A6529 
Gradient compression garment, bra, for nighttime use, 
custom, each 
A6552 
Gradient compression stocking, below knee, 30-40 
mmhg, each 
A6553 
Gradient compression stocking, below knee, 30-40 
mmhg, custom, each 
A6554 Gradient compression stocking, below knee, 40 mmhg 
or greater, each 
A6555 Gradient compression stocking, below knee, 40 mmhg 
or greater, custom, each 
A6556 Gradient compression stocking, thigh length, 18-30 
mmhg, custom, each 
A6574 
Gradient compression arm sleeve and glove 
combination, custom, each 
A6575 Gradient compression arm sleeve and glove 
combination, each 
A6576 
Gradient compression arm sleeve, custom, medium 
weight, each 
A6577 Gradient compression arm sleeve, custom, heavy 
weight, each 
A6578 Gradient compression arm sleeve, each 
A6579 
Gradient compression glove, custom, medium weight, 
each 
A6580 
Gradient compression glove, custom, heavy weight, 
each 
A6581 
Gradient compression glove, each 
A6582 
Gradient compression gauntlet, each 
A6583 
Gradient compression wrap with adjustable straps, 
below knee, 30-50 mmhg, each 
A6584 
Gradient compression wrap with adjustable straps, 
not otherwise specified 
A6585 Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable straps, above 
knee, each 
A6586 
Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable straps, full leg, 
each 
11 
NEW CODES A6587 - C7560 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
A6587 
Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable straps, foot, 
A9269 
Programable, transient, orally ingested capsule, for use 
each 
with external programmer, per month 
A6588 
Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable straps, arm, 
A9292 
Prescription digital visual therapy, software-only, FDA 
each 
cleared, per course of treatment 
A6589 
Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable straps, bra, 
A9573 
Injection, gadopiclenol, 1 ml 
each 
A9603 
Injection, pafolacianine, 0.1 mg 
A6590 
External urinary catheters; disposable, with wicking 
material, for use with suction pump, per month 
A9608 
Flotufolastat f 18, diagnostic, 1 millicurie 
A6591 
External urinary catheter; non-disposable, for use with 
A9609 
Fludeoxyglucose f18 up to 15 millicuries 
suction pump, per month 
A9697 
Injection, carboxydextran-coated superparamagnetic 
A6593 
Accessory for gradient compression garment or wrap 
iron oxide, per study dose 
with adjustable straps, not-otherwise specified 
B4148 
Enteral feeding supply kit; elastomeric control fed, per 
A6594 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, bandage 
day, includes but not limited to feeding/flushing syringe, 
liner, lower extremity, any size or length, each 
administration set tubing, dressings, tape 
A6595 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, bandage 
C1600 
Catheter, transluminal intravascular lesion preparation 
liner, upper extremity, any size or length, each 
device, bladed, sheathed (insertable) 
A6596 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, conforming 
C1601 
Endoscope, single-use (i.e. disposable), pulmonary, 
gauze, per linear yard, any width, each 
imaging/illumination device (insertable) 
A6597 
Gradient compression bandage roll, elastic long 
C1602 
Orthopedic/device/drug matrix/absorbable bone void 
stretch, linear yard, any width, each 
filler, antimicrobial-eluting (implantable) 
A6598 
Gradient compression bandage roll, elastic medium 
C1603 
Retrieval device, insertable, laser (used to retrieve 
stretch, per linear yard, any width, each 
intravascular inferior vena cava filter) 
A6599 
Gradient compression bandage roll, inelastic short 
C1604 
Graft, transmural transvenous arterial bypass 
stretch, per linear yard, any width, each 
(implantable), with all delivery system components 
A6600 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, high density 
foam sheet, per 250 square centimeters, each 
C7556 
Bronchoscopy, rigid or flexible, with bronchial alveolar 
lavage and transendoscopic endobronchial ultrasound 
A6601 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, high density 
foam pad, any size or shape, each 
A6602 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, high density 
foam roll for bandage, per linear yard, any width, each 
(ebus) during bronchoscopic diagnostic or therapeutic 
intervention(s) for peripheral lesion(s), including 
fluoroscopic guidance, when performed 
C7557 
Catheter placement in coronary artery(s) for coronary 
A6603 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, low density 
channel foam sheet, per 250 square centimeters, each 
angiography, including intraprocedural injection(s) 
for coronary angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation with left heart catheterization including 
A6604 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, low density 
intraprocedural injection(s) for left ventriculography, 
flat foam sheet, per 250 square centimeters, each 
when performed and intraprocedural coronary 
A6605 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, padded foam, 
per linear yard, any width, each 
A6606 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, padded 
textile, per linear yard, any width, each 
fractional flow reserve (ffr) with 3d functional mapping 
of color-coded ffr values for the coronary tree, derived 
from coronary angiogram data, for real-time review and 
interpretation of possible atherosclerotic stenosis(es) 
intervention 
A6607 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, tubular 
protective absorption layer, per linear yard, any width, 
each 
C7558 
Catheter placement in coronary artery(s) for 
coronary angiography, including intraprocedural 
injection(s) for coronary angiography, imaging 
A6608 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, tubular 
protective absorption padded layer, per linear yard, 
any width, each 
supervision and interpretation with right and left heart 
catheterization including intraprocedural injection(s) 
for left ventriculography, when performed, catheter 
A6609 
Gradient compression bandaging supply, not otherwise 
specified 
A6610 
Gradient compression stocking, below knee, 18-30 
placement(s) in bypass graft(s) (internal mammary, 
free arterial, venous grafts) with bypass graft 
angiography with pharmacologic agent administration 
(eg, inhaled nitric oxide, intravenous infusion of 
mmhg, custom, each 
A7023 
Mechanical allergen particle barrier/inhalation filter, 
cream, nasal, topical 
A7049 
Expiratory positive airway pressure intranasal 
resistance valve 
nitroprusside, dobutamine, milrinone, or other agent) 
including assessing hemodynamic measurements 
before, during, after and repeat pharmacologic agent 
administration, when performed 
C7560 
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography 
A9156 
Oral mucoadhesive, any type (liquid, gel, paste, etc.), 
per1 ml 
(ercp) with removal of foreign body(s) or stent(s) from 
biliary/pancreatic duct(s) and endoscopic cannulation 
of papilla with direct visualization of pancreatic/ 
A9268 
Programmer for transient, orally ingested capsule 
common bile duct(s) 
12 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
NEW CODES C7903 - G0013 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
C7903 
Group psychotherapy service for diagnosis, evaluation, 
E0490 
Power source and control electronics unit for oral 
or treatment of a mental health or substance use 
device/appliance for neuromuscular electrical 
disorder provided remotely by hospital staff who are 
stimulation of the tongue muscle, controlled by 
licensed to provide mental health services under 
hardware remote 
applicable state law(s), when the patient is in their 
home, and there is no associated professional service 
E0491 
Oral device/appliance for neuromuscular electrical 
stimulation of the tongue muscle, used in conjunction 
C9145 
Injection, aprepitant, (aponvie), 1 mg 
with the power source and control electronics unit, 
C9150 
Xenon xe-129 hyperpolarized gas, diagnostic, 
controlled by hardware remote, 90-day supply 
per study dose 
E0492 
Power source and control electronics unit for oral 
C9159 
Injection, prothrombin complex concentrate (human), 
device/appliance for neuromuscular electrical 
balfaxar, per i.u. of factor ix activity 
stimulation of the tongue muscle, controlled by phone 
C9160 
Injection, daxibotulinumtoxina-lanm, 1 unit 
application 
C9161 
Injection, aflibercept hd, 1 mg 
C9162 
Injection, avacincaptad pegol, 0.1 mg 
C9163 
Injection, talquetamab-tgvs, 0.25 mg 
E0493 
Oral device/appliance for neuromuscular electrical 
stimulation of the tongue muscle, used in conjunction 
with the power source and control electronics unit, 
controlled by phone application, 90-day supply 
C9164 
Cantharidin for topical administration, 0.7%, single unit 
dose applicator (3.2 mg) 
E0530 
Electronic positional obstructive sleep apnea treatment, 
with sensor, includes all components and accessories, 
C9165 
Injection, elranatamab-bcmm, 1 mg 
any type 
C9784 
Gastric restrictive procedure, endoscopic sleeve 
gastroplasty, with esophagogastroduodenoscopy and 
intraluminal tube insertion, if performed, including all 
system and tissue anchoring components 
C9785 
Endoscopic outlet reduction, gastric pouch application, 
with endoscopy and intraluminal tube insertion. if 
performed, including all system and tissue anchoring 
E0677 
Non-pneumatic sequential compression garment, trunk 
E0678 
Non-pneumatic sequential compression garment, 
full leg 
E0679 
Non-pneumatic sequential compression garment, 
half leg 
E0680 
Non-pneumatic compression controller with sequential 
components 
calibrated gradient pressure 
C9786 
Echocardiography image post processing for computer 
E0681 
Non-pneumatic compression controller without 
aided detection of heart failure with preserved ejection 
calibrated gradient pressure 
fraction, including interpretation and report 
E0682 
Non-pneumatic sequential compression garment, 
C9787 
Gastric electrophysiology mapping with simultaneous 
full arm 
patient symptom profiling 
E0711 
Upper extremity medical tubing/lines enclosure or 
C9789 
Instillation of anti-neoplastic pharmacologic/biologic 
covering device, restricts elbow range of motion 
agent into renal pelvis, any method, including all 
imaging guidance, including volumetric measurement 
if performed 
C9790 
Histotripsy (ie, non-thermal ablation via acoustic 
energy delivery) of malignant renal tissue, including 
image guidance 
C9791 
Magnetic resonance imaging with inhaled 
hyperpolarized xenon-129 contrast agent, chest, 
including preparation and administration of agent 
E0732 
Cranial electrotherapy stimulation (ces) system, 
any type 
E0733 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator for electrical 
stimulation of the trigeminal nerve 
E0734 
External upper limb tremor stimulator of the peripheral 
nerves of the wrist 
E0735 
Non-invasive vagus nerve stimulator 
E1301 
Whirlpool tub, walk-in, portable 
C9792 
Blinded or nonblinded procedure for symptomatic 
E1905 
Virtual reality cognitive behavioral therapy device (cbt), 
new york heart association (nyha) class ii, iii, iva 
including pre-programmed therapy software 
heart failure; transcatheter implantation of left 
atrial to coronary sinus shunt using jugular vein 
access, including all imaging necessary to intra 
procedurally map the coronary sinus for optimal shunt 
placement (e.g., tee or ice ultrasound, fluoroscopy), 
performed under general anesthesia in an approved 
investigational device exemption (ide) study) 
C9793 
3d predictive model generation for pre-planning of a 
cardiac procedure, using data from cardiac computed 
tomographic angiography with report 
C9794 
Therapeutic radiology simulation-aided field setting; 
complex, including acquisition of pet and ct imaging 
data required for radiopharmaceutical-directed 
radiation therapy treatment planning (i.e., modeling) 
C9795 
Stereotactic body radiation therapy, treatment delivery, 
per fraction to 1 or more lesions, including image 
guidance and real-time positron emissions-based 
delivery adjustments to 1 or more lesions, entire course 
not to exceed 5 fractions 
E2001 
Suction pump, home model, portable or stationary, 
electric, any type, for use with external urine 
management system 
E3000 
Speech volume modulation system, any type, including 
all components and accessories 
G0011 
Individual counseling for pre-exposure prophylaxis 
(prep) by physician or qualified health care professional 
(qhp )to prevent human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), 
includes hiv risk assessment (initial or continued 
assessment of risk), hiv risk reduction and medication 
adherence, 15-30 minutes 
G0012 Injection of pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) drug for 
hiv prevention, under skin or into muscle 
G0013 Individual counseling for pre-exposure prophylaxis 
(prep) by clinical staff to prevent human 
immunodeficiency virus (hiv), includes: hiv risk 
assessment (initial or continued assessment of risk), 
hiv risk reduction and medication adherence 
13 
NEW CODES G00l 7 - G0023 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
G0017 
Psychotherapy for crisis furnished in an applicable site 
of service (any place of service at which the non-facility 
rate for psychotherapy for crisis services applies, other 
than the office setting); first 60 minutes 
G0018 
Psychotherapy for crisis furnished in an applicable site 
of service (any place of service at which the non-facility 
rate for psychotherapy for crisis services applies, other 
than the office setting); each additional 30 minutes (list 
reach person-centered diagnosis or treatment goals. 
facilitating and providing social and emotional support 
to help the patient cope with the problem(s) addressed 
in the initiating visit, the sdoh need(s), and adjust daily 
routines to better meet diagnosis and treatment goals. 
leveraging lived experience when applicable to provide 
support, mentorship, or inspiration to meet treatment 
goals 
separately in addition to code for primary service) 
G0022 
Community health integration services, each additional 
G0019 
Community health integration services performed 
by certified or trained auxiliary personnel, including 
30 minutes per calendar month (list separately in 
addition to G0019) 
a community health worker, under the direction of 
G0023 
Principal illness navigation services by certified or 
a physician or other practitioner; 60 minutes per 
trained auxiliary personnel under the direction of a 
calendar month, in the following activities to address 
physician or other practitioner, including a patient 
social determinants of health (sdoh) need(s) that are 
navigator; 60 minutes per calendar month, in the 
significantly limiting the ability to diagnose or treat 
following activities: person-centered assessment, 
problem(s) addressed in an initiating visit: person-
performed to better understand the individual context 
centered assessment, performed to better understand 
of the serious, high-risk condition. ++ conducting 
the individualized context of the intersection between 
a person-centered assessment to understand the 
the sdoh need(s) and the problem(s) addressed in 
patient's life story, strengths, needs, goals, preferences, 
the initiating visit. ++ conducting a person-centered 
and desired outcomes, including understanding cultural 
assessment to understand patient's life story, strengths, 
and linguistic factors and including unmet sdoh needs 
needs, goals, preferences and desired outcomes, 
(that are not separately billed). ++ facilitating patient-
including understanding cultural and linguistic 
driven goal setting and establishing an action plan. ++ 
factors and including unmet sdoh needs (that are not 
providing tailored support as needed to accomplish 
separately billed). ++ facilitating patient-driven goal-
the practitioner's treatment plan. identifying or 
setting and establishing an action plan. ++ providing 
referring patient (and caregiver or family, if applicable) 
tailored support to the patient as needed to accomplish 
to appropriate supportive services. practitioner, 
the practitioner's treatment plan. practitioner, 
home, and community-based care coordination. 
home-, and community-based care coordination. 
++ coordinating receipt of needed services from 
++ coordinating receipt of needed services from 
healthcare practitioners, providers, and facilities; 
healthcare practitioners, providers, and facilities; and 
home- and community-based service providers; and 
from home- and community-based service providers, 
caregiver (if applicable).++ communication with 
social service providers, and caregiver (if applicable). 
practitioners, home-, and community-based service 
++ communication with practitioners, home- and 
providers, hospitals, and skilled nursing facilities (or 
community-based service providers, hospitals, and 
other health care facilities) regarding the patient's 
skilled nursing facilities (or other health care facilities) 
psychosocial strengths and needs, functional deficits, 
regarding the patient's psychosocial strengths and 
goals, preferences, and desired outcomes, including 
needs, functional deficits, goals, preferences, and 
cultural and linguistic factors. ++ coordination of 
desired outcomes, including cultural and linguistic 
care transitions between and among health care 
factors. ++ coordination of care transitions between 
practitioners and settings, including transitions involving 
and among health care practitioners and settings, 
referral to other clinicians; follow-up after an emergency 
including transitions an emergency department visit; 
department visit; or follow-up after discharges from 
or follow-up after discharges from hospitals, skilled 
hospitals, skilled nursing facilities or other health care 
nursing facilities or other health care facilities. ++ 
facilities. ++ facilitating access to community-based 
facilitating access to community-based social services 
social services (e.g., housing, utilities, transportation, 
(e.g., housing, utilities, transportation, food assistance) 
likely to promote personalized and effective treatment 
to address the sdoh need(s). health education- helping 
of their condition. health care access / health system 
the patient contextualize health education provided 
navigation. ++ helping the patient access healthcare, 
by the patient's treatment team with the patient's 
including identifying appropriate practitioners or 
individual needs, goals, and preferences, in the context 
of the sdoh need(s), and educating the patient on how 
providers for clinical care, and helping secure 
appointments with them. ++ providing the patient 
to best participate in medical decision-making. building 
patient self-advocacy skills, so that the patient can 
interact with members of the health care team and 
related community-based services addressing the 
sdoh need(s), in ways that are more likely to promote 
personalized and effective diagnosis or treatment. 
health care access / health system navigation. ++ 
helping the patient access healthcare, including 
identifying appropriate practitioners or providers for 
clinical care and helping secure appointments with 
them. facilitating behavioral change as necessary 
involving referral to other clinicians; follow-up after 
for meeting diagnosis and treatment goals, including 
promoting patient motivation to participate in care and 
with information/resources to consider participation 
in clinical trials or clinical research as applicable. 
facilitating behavioral change as necessary for 
meeting diagnosis and treatment goals, including 
promoting patient motivation to participate in care 
and reach person-centered diagnosis or treatment 
goals. facilitating and providing social and emotional 
support to help the patient cope with the condition, 
sdoh need(s), and adjust daily routines to better meet 
diagnosis and treatment goals. leverage knowledge of 
the serious, high-risk condition and/or lived experience 
when applicable to provide support, mentorship, or 
inspiration to meet treatment goals 
14 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
NEW CODES G0024 - J0802 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
G0024 
Principal illness navigation services, additional 30 
how to best participate in medical decision-making. 
minutes per calendar month (list separately in addition 
building patient self-advocacy skills, so that the patient 
to G0023) 
can interact with members of the health care team 
G0136 Administration of a standardized, evidence-based 
and related community-based services (as needed), 
social determinants of health risk assessment tool, 
in ways that are more likely to promote personalized 
5-15 minutes 
and effective treatment of their condition. developing 
G0137 
Intensive outpatient services; weekly bundle, minimum 
of 9 services over a 7 contiguous day period, which 
can include individual and group therapy with 
physicians or psychologists (or other mental health 
professionals to the extent authorized under state 
law); occupational therapy requiring the skills of a 
qualified occupational therapist; services of social 
workers, trained psychiatric nurses, and other staff 
trained to work with psychiatric patients; individualized 
activity therapies that are not primarily recreational or 
diversionary; family counseling (the primary purpose of 
and proposing strategies to help meet person-centered 
treatment goals and supporting the patient in using 
chosen strategies to reach person-centered treatment 
goals. facilitating and providing social and emotional 
support to help the patient cope with the condition, 
sdoh need(s), and adjust daily routines to better meet 
person-centered diagnosis and treatment goals. 
leverage knowledge of the serious, high-risk condition 
and/or lived experience when applicable to provide 
support, mentorship, or inspiration to meet treatment 
goals 
which is treatment of the individual's condition); patient 
G0146 
Principal illness navigation - peer support, additional 
training and education (to the extent that training and 
30 minutes per calendar month (list separately in 
educational activities are closely and clearly related to 
addition to G0140) 
individual's care and treatment); diagnostic services; 
H2040 
Coordinated specialty care, team-based, for first 
and such other items and services (excluding meals 
episode psychosis, per month 
and transportation) that are reasonable and necessary 
for the diagnosis or active treatment of the individual's 
condition, reasonably expected to improve or maintain 
the individual's condition and functional level and 
to prevent relapse or hospitalization, and furnished 
pursuant to such guidelines relating to frequency and 
duration of services in accordance with a physician 
H2041 
Coordinated specialty care, team-based, for first 
episode psychosis, per encounter 
J0137 
Injection, Acetaminophen (Hikma) Not Therapeutically 
Equivalent To J0131, 10 Mg 
J0174 
Injection, lecanemab-irmb, 1 mg 
J0184 
Injection, amisulpride, 1 mg 
certification and plan of treatment (provision of the 
J0206 
Injection, Allopurinol Sodium, 1 Mg 
services by a medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
J0208 
Injection, sodium thiosulfate, 100 mg 
program); list separately in addition to code for primary 
procedure 
G0140 
Principal illness navigation - peer support by certified 
or trained auxiliary personnel under the direction of 
a physician or other practitioner, including a certified 
J0216 
Injection, alfentanil hydrochloride, 500 micrograms 
J0217 
Injection, velmanase alfa-tycv, 1 mg 
J0218 
Injection, olipudase alfa-rpcp, 1 mg 
J0349 
Injection, rezafungin, 1 mg 
peer specialist; 60 minutes per calendar month, in 
J0391 
Injection, artesunate, 1 mg 
the following activities: person-centered interview, 
J0402 
Injection, aripiprazole (abilify asimtufii), 1 mg 
performed to better understand the individual context 
of the serious, high-risk condition. ++ conducting a 
person-centered interview to understand the patient's 
life story, strengths, needs, goals, preferences, and 
desired outcomes, including understanding cultural 
and linguistic factors, and including unmet sdoh needs 
(that are not billed separately}. ++ facilitating patient-
J0457 
Injection, Aztreonam, 100 Mg 
J0576 
Injection, buprenorphine extended-release (brixadi), 
1 mg 
J0612 
Injection, calcium gluconate (fresenius kabi), per 10 mg 
J0613 
Injection, calcium gluconate (wg critical care), 
per 10 mg 
driven goal setting and establishing an action plan. ++ 
J0665 
Injection, Bupivicaine, Not Otherwise Specified, 0.5 Mg 
providing tailored support as needed to accomplish the 
J0688 
Injection, cefazolin sodium (hikma), not therapeutically 
person-centered goals in the practitioner's treatment 
equivalent to J0690, 500 mg 
plan. identifying or referring patient (and caregiver or 
family, if applicable) to appropriate supportive services. 
practitioner, home, and community-based care 
communication. ++ assist the patient in communicating 
with their practitioners, home-, and community-based 
service providers, hospitals, and skilled nursing 
facilities (or other health care facilities) regarding 
the patient's psychosocial strengths and needs, 
goals, preferences, and desired outcomes, including 
cultural and linguistic factors. ++ facilitating access 
to community-based social services (e.g., housing, 
J0736 
Injection, Clindamycin Phosphate, 300 Mg 
J0737 
Injection, Clindamycin Phosphate (Baxter), Not 
Therapeutically Equivalent To J0736, 300 Mg 
J0750 
Emtricitabine 200mg and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
300mg, oral, FDA approved prescription, only for 
use as hiv pre-exposure prophylaxis (not for use as 
treatment of hiv) 
J0751 
Emtricitabine 200mg and tenofovir alafenamide 25mg, 
oral, FDA approved prescription, only for use as hiv pre-
exposure prophylaxis (not for use as treatment of hiv) 
utilities, transportation, food assistance) as needed to 
J0799 
FDA approved prescription drug, only for use as hiv 
address sdoh need(s). health education. helping the 
pre-exposure prophylaxis (not for use as treatment of 
patient contextualize health education provided by the 
hiv), not otherwise classified 
-
patient's treatment team with the patient's individual 
J0801 
Injection, corticotropin (acthar gel), up to 40 units 
needs, goals, preferences, and sdoh need(s), and 
educating the patient (and caregiver if applicable) on 
J0802 
Injection, corticotropin (ani), up to 40 units 
15 
NEW CODES J0873 -J9381 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
Code 1 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
J0873 
Injection, daptomycin (xellia) not therapeutically 
J2806 
Injection, sincalide (maia) not therapeutically equivalent 
equivalent to J0878, 1 mg 
to J2805, 5 micrograms 
J0874 
Injection, daptomycin (baxter), not therapeutically 
J3401 
Beremagene geperpavec-svdt for topical 
equivalent to J0878, 1 mg 
administration, containing nominal 5 x 10"9 pfu/ml 
J0889 
Daprodustat, oral, 1 mg, (for esrd on dialysis) 
vector genomes, per 0.1 ml 
J1105 
Dexmedetomidine, oral, 1 mcg 
J3425 
Injection, hydroxocobalamin, 10 mcg 
J1246 
Injection, dinutuximab, 0.1 mg 
J1304 
Injection, tofersen, 1 mg 
J1411 
Injection, etranacogene dezaparvovec-drlb, 
per therapeutic dose 
J1412 
Injection, valoctocogene roxaparvovec-rvox, per ml, 
containing nominal 2 x 10"13 vector genomes 
J7213 
Injection, coagulation factor ix (recombinant), ixinity, 
1 i.u. 
J7214 
Injection, factor viii/von willebrand factor complex, 
recombinant (altuviiio ), per factor viii i.u. 
J7353 
Anacaulase-bcdb, 8.8% gel, 1 gram 
J7519 
Injection, mycophenolate mofetil, 10 mg 
J1413 
Injection, delandistrogene moxeparvovec-rokl, 
per therapeutic dose 
J9029 
Injection, Nadofaragene Firadenovec-Vncg, 
Per Therapeutic Dose 
J1440 
Fecal microbiota, live - jslm, 1 ml 
J9051 
Injection, bortezomib (maia), not therapeutically 
J1449 
Injection, eflapegrastim-xnst, 0.1 mg 
equivalent to J9041, 0.1 mg 
J1576 
Injection, immune globulin (panzyga), intravenous, 
non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 500 mg 
J9052 
Injection, carmustine (accord), not therapeutically 
equivalent to J9050, 100 mg 
J1596 
Injection, glycopyrrolate, 0.1 mg 
J1747 
Injection, spesolimab-sbzo, 1 mg 
J1805 
Injection, Esmolol Hydrochloride, 10 Mg 
J1806 
Injection, Esmolol Hydrochloride (Wg Critical Care) Not 
Therapeutically Equivalent To J 1805, 10 Mg 
J9056 
Injection, bendamustine hydrochloride (vivimusta), 
1 mg 
J9058 
Injection, bendamustine hydrochloride (apotex), 1 mg 
J9059 
Injection, bendamustine hydrochloride (baxter), 1 mg 
J9063 
Injection, mirvetuximab soravtansine-gynx, 1 mg 
J1811 
Insulin (Fiasp) For Administration Through Orne 
(I.E., Insulin Pump) Per 50 Units 
J9064 
Injection, cabazitaxel (sandoz), not therapeutically 
equivalent to J9043, 1 mg 
J1812 
Insulin (fiasp ), per 5 units 
J9072 
Injection, cyclophosphamide, (dr. reddy's), 5 mg 
J1813 
Insulin (Lyumjev) For Administration Through Orne 
(I.E., Insulin Pump) Per 50 Units 
J9172 
Injection, docetaxel (ingenus) not therapeutically 
equivalent to J9171, 1 mg 
J1814 
Insulin (lyumjev), per 5 units 
J1836 
Injection, Metronidazole, 10 Mg 
J1920 
Injection, Labetalol Hydrochloride, 5 Mg 
J1921 
Injection, Labetalol Hydrochloride (Hikma) Not 
Therapeutically Equivalent To J1920, 5 Mg 
J1939 
Injection, bumetanide, 0.5 mg 
J1941 
Injection, furosemide (furoscix), 20 mg 
J9196 
Injection, gemcitabine hydrochloride (accord), not 
therapeutically equivalent to J9201, 200 mg 
J9255 
Injection, methotrexate (accord) not therapeutically 
equivalent to J9250 and J9260, 50 mg 
J9258 
Injection, paclitaxel protein-bound particles (teva) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J9264, 1 mg 
J9259 
Injection, paclitaxel protein-bound particles (american 
regent) not therapeutically equivalent to J9264, 1 mg 
J1954 
Injection, leuprolide acetate for depot suspension 
(cipla), 7.5 mg 
J1961 
Injection, lenacapavir, 1 mg 
J9286 
Injection, glofitamab-gxbm, 2.5 mg 
J9294 
Injection, pemetrexed (hospira) not therapeutically 
equivalent to J9305, 10 mg 
J2249 
Injection, remimazolam, 1 mg 
J2305 
Injection, Nitroglycerin, 5 Mg 
J9296 
Injection, pemetrexed (accord) not therapeutically 
equivalent to J9305, 10 mg 
J2329 
Injection, ublituximab-xiiy, 1 mg 
J9297 
Injection, pemetrexed (sandoz), not therapeutically 
J2359 
Injection, olanzapine, 0.5 mg 
equivalent to J9305, 1 O mg 
J2371 
Injection, phenylephrine hydrochloride, 20 micrograms 
J9314 
Injection, pemetrexed (teva) not therapeutically 
J2372 
Injection, Phenylephrine Hydrochloride (Biorphen), 
equivalent to J9305, 1 O mg 
20 Micrograms 
J9321 
Injection, epcoritamab-bysp, 0.16 mg 
J2403 
Chloroprocaine hcl ophthalmic, 3% gel, 1 mg 
J9322 
Injection, pemetrexed (bluepoint) not therapeutically 
J2404 
Injection, nicardipine, 0.1 mg 
equivalent to J9305, 10 mg 
J2427 
Injection, paliperidone palmitate extended release 
J9323 
Injection, pemetrexed ditromethamine, 10 mg 
(invega hafyera, or invega trinza), 1 mg 
J9324 
Injection, pemetrexed (pemrydi rtu), 10 mg 
J2508 
Injection, pegunigalsidase alfa-iwxj, 1 mg 
J9333 
Injection, rozanolixizumab-noli, 1 mg 
J2561 
Injection, phenobarbital sodium (sezaby), 1 mg 
J9334 
Injection, efgartigimod alfa, 2 mg and hyaluronidase-
J2598 
Injection, Vasopressin, 1 Unit 
qvfc 
J2599 
Injection, Vasopressin (American Regent) Not 
J9345 
Injection, retifanlimab-dlwr, 1 mg 
Therapeutically Equivalent To J2598, 1 Unit 
J9347 
Injection, tremelimumab-actl, 1 mg 
J2679 
Injection, fluphenazine hcl, 1.25 mg 
J9350 
Injection, mosunetuzumab-axgb, 1 mg 
J2781 
Injection, pegcetacoplan, intravitreal, 1 mg 
J9380 
Injection, teclistamab-cqyv, 0.5 mg 
J2799 
Injection, risperidone (uzedy), 1 mg 
J9381 
Injection, teplizumab-mzwv, 5 mcg 
16 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
NEW CODES K1035- M1244 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
K1035 
Molecular diagnostic test reader, nonprescription self-
M1225 
lntraocular pressure (iop) reduced by a value of greater 
administered and self-collected use, FDA approved, 
than or equal to 20% from the pre-intervention level 
authorized or cleared 
K1036 
Supplies and accessories (e.g., transducer) for low 
frequency ultrasonic diathermy treatment device, 
per month 
M1226 
lop measurement not documented, reason not 
otherwise specified 
M1227 
Evidence-based therapy was prescribed 
L 1681 
Hip orthosis, bilateral hip joints and thigh cuffs, 
adjustable flexion, extension, abduction control of hip 
joint, postoperative hip abduction type, prefabricated 
item that has been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
M1228 
Patient, who has a reactive hcv antibody test, and has 
a follow up hcv viral test that detected hcv viremia, has 
hcv treatment initiated within 3 months of the reactive 
hcv antibody test 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific patient by an 
M1229 
Patient, who has a reactive hcv antibody test, and has 
individual with expertise 
a follow up hcv viral test that detected hcv viremia, is 
L3161 
Foot, adductus positioning device, adjustable 
L5615 
Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 4 bar linkage 
referred within 1 month of the reactive hcv antibody 
test to a clinician who treats hcv infection 
or multiaxial, fluid swing and stance phase control 
M1230 
Patient has a reactive hcv antibody test and does not 
L5926 
Addition to lower extremity prosthesis, endoskeletal, 
knee disarticulation, above knee, hip disarticulation, 
positional rotation unit, any type 
L5991 
Addition to lower extremity prostheses, 
osseointegrated external prosthetic connector 
L8678 
Electrical stimulator supplies (external) for use with 
implantable neurostimulator, per month 
M0010 
Enhancing oncology model (eom) monthly enhanced 
oncology services (meos) payment for eom enhanced 
have a follow up hcv viral test, or patient has a reactive 
hcv antibody test and has a follow up hcv viral test that 
detects hcv viremia and is not referred to a clinician 
who treats hcv infection within 1 month and does not 
have hcv treatment initiated within 3 months of the 
reactive hcv antibody test, reason not given 
M1231 
Patient receives hcv antibody test with nonreactive 
result 
M1232 
Patient receives hcv antibody test with reactive result 
services 
M1233 
Patient does not receive hcv antibody test or patient 
M1211 
Most recent hemoglobin a1c level> 9.0% 
does receive hcv antibody test but results not 
M1212 
Hemoglobin a1c level is missing, or was not performed 
documented, reason not given 
during the measurement period (12 months) 
M1234 
Patient has a rea<.;live hcv antibody test, and has a 
M1213 
No history of spirometry results with confirmed airflow 
follow up hcv viral test that does not detect hcv viremia 
obstruction (fev1/fvc < 70%) and present spirometry is 
M1235 
Documentation or patient report of hcv antibody test or 
>= 70% 
hcv rna test which occurred prior to the performance 
M1214 
Spirometry results with confirmed airflow obstruction 
period 
(fev1/fvc < 70%) documented and reviewed 
M1236 
Baseline mrs > 2 
M1215 
Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
documenting and reviewing spirometry results 
(e.g., patients with dementia or tracheostomy) 
M1237 
Patient reason for not screening for food insecurity, 
housing instability, transportation needs, utility 
difficulties, and interpersonal safety (e.g., patient 
M1216 
No spirometry results with confirmed airflow obstruction 
declined or other patient reasons) 
(fev1/fvc < 70%) documented and/or no spirometry 
performed with results documented during the 
encounter 
M1217 Documentation of system reason(s) for not 
documenting and reviewing spirometry results 
(e.g., spirometry equipment not available at the time of 
the encounter) 
M1218 
Patient has copd symptoms (e.g., dyspnea, cough/ 
sputum, wheezing) 
M1219 
Anaphylaxis due to the vaccine on or before the date of 
the encounter 
M1220 
Dilated retinal eye exam with interpretation by an 
ophthalmologist or optometrist or artificial intelligence 
(ai) interpretation documented and reviewed; with 
evidence of retinopathy 
M1221 Dilated retinal eye exam with interpretation by an 
ophthalmologist or optometrist or artificial intelligence 
M1238 Documentation that administration of second 
recombinant zoster vaccine could not occur during 
the performance period due to the recommended 2-6 
month interval between doses (i.e, first dose received 
after october 31) 
M1239 
Patient did not respond to the question of patient felt 
heard and understood by this provider and team 
M1240 
Patient did not respond to the question of patient felt 
this provider and team put my best interests first when 
making recommendations about my care 
M1241 
Patient did not respond to the question of patient felt 
this provider and team saw me as a person, not just 
someone with a medical problem 
M1242 
Patient did not respond to the question of patient felt 
this provider and team understood what is important to 
me in my life 
(ai) interpretation documented and reviewed; without 
M1243 
Patient provided a response other than "completely 
evidence of retinopathy 
true" for the question of patient felt heard and 
M1222 
Glaucoma plan of care not documented, reason not 
understood by this provider and team 
otherwise specified 
M1244 
Patient provided a response other than "completely 
M1223 
Glaucoma plan of care documented 
M1224 
lntraocular pressure (iop) reduced by a value less than 
20% from the pre-intervention level 
true" for the question of patient felt this provider 
and team put my best interests first when making 
recommendations about my care 
17 
NEW CODES Ml 245 - Ml 287 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
M1245 
Patient provided a response other than "completely 
M1267 
Patients not on any kidney or kidney-pancreas 
true" for the question of patient felt this provider and 
transplant waitlist or is not in active status on any 
team saw me as a person, not just someone with a 
kidney or kidney-pancreas transplant waitlist as of the 
medical problem 
last day of each month during the measurement period 
M1246 
Patient provided a response other than "completely 
M1268 
Patients on active status on any kidney or kidney-
true" for the question of patient felt this provider and 
team understood what is important to me in my life 
pancreas transplant waitlist as of the last day of each 
month during the measurement period 
M1247 
Patient responded "completely true" for the question of 
patient felt this provider and team put my best interests 
first when making recommendations about my care 
M1248 
Patient responded "completely true" for the question of 
patient felt this provider and team saw me as a person, 
not just someone with a medical problem 
M1269 
Receiving esrd mcp dialysis services by the provider 
on the last day of the reporting month 
M1270 
Patients not on any kidney or kidney-pancreas 
transplant waitlist as of the last day of each month 
during the measurement period 
M1249 
Patient responded "completely true" for the question of 
patient felt this provider and team understood what is 
M1271 Patients with dementia at any time prior to or during 
the month 
important to me in my life 
M1272 
Patients on any kidney or kidney-pancreas transplant 
M1250 
Patient responded as "completely true" for the question 
waitlist as of the last day of each month during the 
of patient felt heard and understood by this provider 
measurement period 
and team 
M1273 
Patients who were admitted to a skilled nursing facility 
M1251 
Patients for whom a proxy completed the entire hu 
(snf) within one year of dialysis initiation according to 
survey on their behalf for any reason (no patient 
the CMS-2728 form 
involvement) 
M1274 
Patients who were admitted to a skilled nursing facility 
M1252 
Patients who did not complete at least one of the four 
(snf) during the month of evaluation were excluded 
patient experience hu survey items and return the hu 
from that month 
survey within 60 days of the ambulatory palliative care 
visit 
M1275 
Patients determined to be in hospice were excluded 
from month of evaluation and the remainder of 
M1253 
Patients who respond on the patient experience hu 
survey that they did not receive care by the listed 
ambulatory palliative care provider in the last 60 days 
(disavowal) 
reporting period 
M1276 
Bmi documented outside normal parameters, no follow-
up plan documented, no reason given 
M1254 
Patients who were deceased when the hu survey 
M1277 
Colorectal cancer screening results documented and 
reached them 
reviewed 
M1255 Patients who have another reason for visiting the clinic 
M1278 
Elevated or hypertensive blood pressure reading 
[not prenatal or postpartum care] and have a positive 
documented, and the indicated follow-up is 
pregnancy test but have not established the clinic as 
documented 
an ob provider (e.g., plan to terminate the pregnancy or 
seek prenatal services elsewhere) 
M1256 
Prior history of known cvd 
M1279 
Elevated or hypertensive blood pressure reading 
documented, indicated follow-up not documented, 
reason not given 
M1257 
Cvd risk assessment not performed or incomplete 
(e.g., cvd risk assessment was not documented), 
reason not otherwise specified 
M1258 
Cvd risk assessment performed, have a documented 
calculated risk score 
M1259 
Patients listed on the kidney-pancreas transplant 
waitlist or who received a living donor transplant within 
the first year following initiation of dialysis 
M1280 Women who had a bilateral mastectomy or who have 
a history of a bilateral mastectomy or for whom there is 
evidence of a right and a left unilateral mastectomy 
M1281 
Blood pressure reading not documented, reason not 
given 
M1282 
Patient screened for tobacco use and identified as a 
tobacco non-user 
M1260 
Patients who were not listed on the kidney-pancreas 
M1283 
Patient screened for tobacco use and identified as a 
transplant waitlist or patients who did not receive a 
tobacco user 
living donor transplant within the first year following 
initiation of dialysis 
M1284 
Patients age 66 or older in institutional special needs 
plans (snp) or residing in long term care with pos code 
M1261 
Patients that were on the kidney or kidney-pancreas 
32, 33, 34, 54, or 56 for more than 90 consecutive 
waitlist prior to initiation of dialysis 
days during the measurement period 
M1262 
Patients who had a transplant prior to initiation of 
dialysis 
M1285 
Screening, diagnostic, film, digital or digital breast 
tomosynthesis (3d) mammography results were not 
M1263 
Patients in hospice on their initiation of dialysis date or 
documented and reviewed, reason not otherwise 
during the month of evaluation 
specified 
M1264 
Patients age 75 or older on their initiation of dialysis 
date 
M1286 
Bmi is documented as being outside of normal 
parameters, follow-up plan is not completed for 
M1265 
CMS medical evidence form 2728 for dialysis patients: 
documented medical reason 
initial form completed 
M1266 
Patients admitted to a skilled nursing facility (snf) 
M1287 
Bmi is documented below normal parameters and a 
follow-up plan is documented 
18 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
NEW CODES M 1288 - M 1328 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
M1288 
Documented reason for not screening or 
M1308 
Influenza immunization was not administered, reason 
recommending a follow-up for high blood pressure 
not given 
M1289 
Patient identified as tobacco user did not receive 
M1309 
Palliative care services provided to patient any time 
tobacco cessation intervention during the measurement 
during the measurement period 
period or in the six months prior to the measurement 
M1310 
Patient screened for tobacco use and received tobacco 
period (counseling and/or pharmacotherapy) 
cessation intervention during the measurement period 
M1290 
Patient not eligible due to active diagnosis of 
or in the six months prior to the measurement period 
hypertension 
(counseling, pharmacotherapy, or both), if identified as 
M1291 
Patients 66 years of age and older with at least one 
a tobacco user 
claim/encounter for frailty during the measurement 
M1311 
Anaphylaxis due to the vaccine on or before the date of 
period and a dispensed medication for dementia 
the encounter 
during the measurement period or the year prior to the 
M1312 
Patient not screened for tobacco use 
measurement period 
M1313 Tobacco screening not performed or tobacco cessation 
M1292 
Patients 66 years of age and older with at least one 
intervention not provided during the measurement 
claim/encounter for frailty during the measurement 
period or in the six months prior to the measurement 
period and either one acute inpatient encounter with 
period 
a diagnosis of advanced illness or two outpatient, 
observation, ed or nonacute inpatient encounters on 
different dates of service with an advanced illness 
diagnosis during the measurement period or the year 
prior to the measurement period 
M1314 
Bmi not documented and no reason is given 
M1315 
Colorectal cancer screening results were not 
documented and reviewed: reason not otherwise 
specified 
M1293 
Bmi is documented above normal parameters and a 
M1316 
Current tobacco non-user 
follow-up plan is documented 
M1317 
Patients who are counseled on connection with a esp 
M1294 
Normal blood pressure reading documented, follow-up 
and explicitly opt out 
not required 
M1318 
Patients who did not have documented contact with 
M1295 
Patients with a diagnosis or past history of total 
colectomy or colorectal cancer 
M1296 
Bmi is documented within normal parameters and no 
follow-up plan is required 
M1297 
Bmi not documented due to medical reason or patient 
refusal of height or weight measurement 
M1298 
Documentation of patient pregnancy anytime during 
a esp for at least one of their screened positive hrsns 
within 60 days after screening or documentation that 
there was no contact with a esp 
M1319 
Patients who had documented contact with a esp for 
at least one of their screened positive hrsns within 
60 days after screening 
M1320 
Patients who screened positive for at least 1 of the 
5 hrsns 
the measurement period prior to and including the 
current encounter 
M1299 
Influenza immunization administered or previously 
M1321 
Patients who were not seen within 7 weeks following 
the date of injection for follow up or who did not have a 
documented iop or no plan of care documented if the 
received 
iop was >25 mm hg 
M1300 
Influenza immunization was not administered for 
M1322 
Patients seen within 7 weeks following the date of 
reasons documented by clinician (e.g., patient allergy 
or other medical reasons, patient declined or other 
patient reasons, vaccine not available or other system 
injection and are screened for elevated intraocular 
pressure (iop) with tonometry with documented iop 
=<25 mm hg for injected eye 
reasons) 
M1323 
Patients seen within 7 weeks following the date of 
M1301 
Patient identified as a tobacco user received tobacco 
cessation intervention during the measurement period 
or in the six months prior to the measurement period 
( counseling and/or pharmacotherapy) 
injection and are screened for elevated intraocular 
pressure (iop) with tonometry with documented iop 
>25 mm hg and a plan of care was documented 
M1324 
Patients who had an intravitreal or periocular 
M1302 
Screening, diagnostic, film digital or digital breast 
tomosynthesis (3d) mammography results documented 
corticosteroid injection (e.g., triamcinolone, 
preservative-free triamcinolone, dexamethasone, 
and reviewed 
dexamethasone intravitreal implant, or fluocinolone 
M1303 
Hospice services provided to patient any time during 
intravitreal implant) 
the measurement period 
M1325 Patients who were not seen for reasons documented 
M1304 
Patient did not receive any pneumococcal conjugate or 
polysaccharide vaccine on or after their 19th birthday 
and before the end of the measurement period 
M1305 
Patient received any pneumococcal conjugate or 
polysaccharide vaccine on or after their 19th birthday 
and before the end of the measurement period 
M1306 
Patient had anaphylaxis due to the pneumococcal 
vaccine any time during or before the measurement 
period 
M1307 
Documentation stating the patient has received or is 
currently receiving palliative or hospice care 
by clinician for patient or medical reasons (e.g., 
inadequate time for follow-up, patients who received 
a prior intravitreal or periocular steroid injection within 
the last six (6) months and had a subsequent iop 
evaluation with iop <25mm hg within seven (7) weeks 
of treatment) 
M1326 
Patients with a diagnosis of hypotony 
M1327 
Patients who were not appropriately evaluated during 
the initial exam and/or who were not re-evaluated 
within 8 weeks 
M1328 
Patients with a diagnosis of acute vitreous hemorrhage 
19 
NEW CODES M 1329 - Q4272 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
M1329 
Patients with a post-operative encounter of the eye 
with the acute pvd within 2 weeks before the initial 
encounter or 8 weeks after initial acute pvd encounter 
M1330 Documentation of patient reason(s) for not having a 
follow up exam (e.g., inadequate time for follow up) 
M1331 
Patients who were appropriately evaluated during 
the initial exam and were re-evaluated no later than 
8 weeks from initial exam 
M1332 Patients who were not appropriately evaluated during 
the initial exam and/or who were not re-evaluated 
within 2 weeks 
M1333 Acute vitreous hemorrhage 
M1334 
Patients with a post-operative encounter of the eye 
with the acute pvd within 2 weeks before the initial 
encounter or 2 weeks after initial acute pvd encounter 
M1335 Documentation of patient reason(s) for not having a 
follow up exam (e.g., inadequate time for follow up) 
M1336 
Patients who were appropriately evaluated during 
the initial exam and were re-evaluated no later than 
2 weeks 
M1337 
Acute pvd 
M1338 
Patients who had follow-up assessment 30 to 180 days 
after the index assessment who did not demonstrate 
positive improvement or maintenance of functioning 
scores during the performance period 
M1339 
Patients who had follow-up assessment 30 to 180 days 
after the index assessment who demonstrated positive 
improvement or maintenance of functioning scores 
during the performance period 
M1340 
Index assessment completed using the 12-item 
whodas 2.0 or sds during the denominator identification 
period 
M1341 
Patients who did not have a follow-up assessment or 
did not have an assessment within 30 to 180 days after 
the index assessment during the performance period 
M1342 
Patients who died during the performance period 
M1343 
Patients who are at pam level 4 at baseline or patients 
who are flagged with extreme straight line response 
sets on the pam 
M1344 
Patients who did not have a baseline pam score and/or 
a second score within 6 to 12 month of baseline pam 
score 
M1345 
Patients who had a baseline pam score and a second 
score within 6 to 12 month of baseline pam score 
M1346 
Patients who did not have a net increase in pam score 
of at least 6 points within a 6 to 12 month period 
M1347 
Patients who achieved a net increase in pam score of 
at least 3 points in a 6 to 12 month period (passing) 
M1348 
Patients who achieved a net increase in pam score of 
at least 6-points in a 6 to 12 month period (excellent) 
M1349 
Patients who did not have a net increase in pam score 
of at least 3 points within 6 to 12 month period 
M1350 
Patients who had a completed suicide safety plan 
initiated, reviewed or updated in collaboration with their 
clinician (concurrent or within 24 hours) of the index 
clinical encounter 
M1351 
Patients who had a suicide safety plan initiated, 
reviewed, or updated and reviewed and updated 
in collaboration with the patient and their clinician 
concurrent or within 24 hours of clinical encounter and 
within 120 days after initiation 
20 
Code 
M1352 
M1353 
M1354 
M1355 
M1356 
M1357 
M1358 
M1359 
M1360 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
Code Descriptor 
Suicidal ideation and/or behavior symptoms based on 
the c-ssrs or equivalent assessment 
Patients who did not have a completed suicide safety 
plan initiated, reviewed or updated in collaboration with 
their clinician (concurrent or within 24 hours) of the 
index clinical encounter 
Patients who did not have a suicide safety plan 
initiated, reviewed, or updated or reviewed and 
updated in collaboration with the patient and their 
clinician concurrent or within 24 hours of clinical 
encounter and within 120 days after initiation 
Suicide risk based on their clinician's evaluation or a 
clinician-rated tool 
Patients who died during the measurement period 
Patients who had a reduction in suicidal ideation and/or 
behavior upon follow-up assessment within 120 days 
of index assessment 
Patients who did not have a reduction in suicidal 
ideation and/or behavior upon follow-up assessment 
within 120 days of index assessment 
Index assessment during the denominator period when 
the suicidal ideation and/or behavior symptoms or 
increased suicide risk by clinician determination occurs 
and a non-zero c-ssrs score is obtained 
Suicidal ideation and/or behavior symptoms based on 
the c-ssrs 
M1361 
Suicide risk based on their clinician's evaluation or a 
clinician-rated tool 
M1362 
Pc11ients who died during the measurement period 
M1363 Patients who did not have a follow-up assessment 
within 120 days of the index assessment 
M1364 
Calculated 10-year ascvd risk score of= 20 percent 
during the performance period 
M1365 
Patient encounter during the performance period with 
hospice and palliative care specialty code 17 
M1366 
Focusing on women's health mips value pathway 
M1367 
Quality care for the treatment of ear, nose, and throat 
disorders mips value pathway 
M1368 
Prevention and treatment of infectious disorders 
including hepatitis c and hiv mips value pathway 
M1369 
Quality care in mental health and substance use 
disorders mips value pathway 
M1370 
Rehabilitative support for musculoskeletal care mips 
value pathway 
Q0516 
Pharmacy supplying fee for hiv pre-exposure 
prophylaxis FDA approved prescription 
drug, per 30-days 
Q0517 
Pharmacy supplying fee for hiv pre-exposure 
prophylaxis FDA approved prescription drug, 
per 60-days 
Q0518 
Pharmacy supplying fee for hiv pre-exposure 
prophylaxis FDA approved prescription drug, 
per 90-days 
Q4265 
Neostim ti, per square centimeter 
Q4266 
Neostim membrane, per square centimeter 
Q4267 
Neostim di, per square centimeter 
Q4268 
Surgraft ft, per square centimeter 
Q4269 
Surgraft xt, per square centimeter 
Q4270 
Complete sl, per square centimeter 
Q4271 
Complete ft, per square centimeter 
Q4272 
Esano a, per square centimeter 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
NEW CODES Q4273 - V2526 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Q4273 
Esano aaa, per square centimeter 
Q4274 
Esano ac, per square centimeter 
Q4275 
Esano aca, per square centimeter 
Q4276 
Orion, per square centimeter 
Q4277 
Woundplus membrane or e-grafl, per square 
centimeter 
Q4278 Epieffect, per square centimeter 
Q4279 Vendaje ac, per square centimeter 
Q4280 
Xcell amnio matrix, per square centimeter 
Q4281 
Barrera sl or barrera di, per square centimeter 
Q4282 
Cygnus dual, per square centimeter 
Q4283 
Biovance tri-layer or biovance 31, per square centimeter 
Q4284 
Dermabind sl, per square centimeter 
Q4285 
Nudyn di or nudyn di mesh, per square centimeter 
Q4286 
Nudyn sl or nudyn slw, per square centimeter 
Q4287 
Dermabind di, per square centimeter 
Q4288 
Dermabind ch, per square centimeter 
Q4289 
Revoshield + amniotic barrier, per square centimeter 
Q4290 
Membrane wrap-hydro, per square centimeter 
Q4291 
Lamellas xi, per square centimeter 
Q4292 
Lamellas, per square centimeter 
Q4293 
Acesso di, per square centimeter 
Q4294 Amnio quad-core, per square centimeter 
Q4295 Amnio tri-core amniotic, per square centimeter 
Q4296 
Rebound matrix, per square centimeter 
Q4297 
Emerge matrix, per square centimeter 
Q4298 Amnicore pro, per square centimeter 
Q4299 Amnicore pro+, per square centimeter 
Q4300 Acesso II, per square centimeter 
Q4301 Activate matrix, per square centimeter 
Q4302 
Complete aca, per square centimeter 
Q4303 
Complete aa, per square centimeter 
Q4304 Grafix plus, per square centimeter 
Q5127 
Injection, pegfilgrastim-fpgk (stimufend), biosimilar, 
0.5 mg 
Q5128 
Injection, ranibizumab-eqrn (cimerli), biosimilar, 0.1 mg 
Q5129 
Injection, bevacizumab-adcd (vegzelma), biosimilar, 
10 mg 
Q5130 
Injection, pegfilgrastim-pbbk (fylnetra), biosimilar, 
0.5 mg 
Q5131 
Injection, adalimumab-aacf (idacio), biosimilar, 20 mg 
Q5132 
Injection, adalimumab-afzb (abrilada), biosimilar, 10 mg 
S9563 
Home injectable therapy, immunotherapy, including 
administrative services, professional pharmacy 
services, care coordination, and all necessary supplies 
and equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
V2526 
Contact lens, hydrophilic, with blue-violet filter, per lens 
21 
REVISED CODES 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
A4344 
Indwelling catheter, foley type, two-way, all silicone or 
polyurethane, each 
G2147 
Leg pain measured by the visual analog scale (vas) 
or numeric pain scale at one year (9 to 15 months) 
A4628 
Oral and/or oropharyngeal suction catheter, each 
postoperatively was greater than 3.0 and leg pain 
A6531 
Gradient compression stocking, below knee, 30-40 
mmhg, used as a surgical dressing, each 
A6532 
Gradient compression stocking, below knee, 40-50 
mmhg, used as a surgical dressing, each 
measured by the visual analog scale (vas) or numeric 
pain scale within three months preoperatively 
and at one year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively 
demonstrated improvement of less than 5.0 points 
A6535 
Gradient compression stocking, thigh length, 40 mmhg 
or greater, each 
G2174 
Uri episodes where the patient is taking antibiotics 
(table 1) in the 30 days prior to the episode date 
A6538 
Gradient compression stocking, full length/chap style, 
G8474 Angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor or 
40 mmhg or greater, each 
angiotensin receptor blocker (arb) therapy not 
A6541 
Gradient compression stocking, waist length, 40 mmhg 
or greater, each 
A6545 
Gradient compression wrap, non-elastic, below knee, 
30-50 mmhg, used as a surgical dressing, each 
A6549 
Gradient compression garment, not otherwise specified 
G0129 
Occupational therapy services requiring the skills 
of a qualified occupational therapist, furnished as a 
component of a partial hospitalization or intensive 
outpatient treatment program, per session (45 minutes 
or more) 
G0410 
Group psychotherapy other than of a multiple-family 
group, in a partial hospitalization or intensive outpatient 
setting, approximately 45 to 50 minutes 
prescribed for reasons documented by the clinician 
(e.g., allergy, intolerance, pregnancy, renal failure due 
to ace inhibitor, diseases of the aortic or mitral valve, 
other medical reasons) or (e.g., patient declined, other 
patient reasons) 
G8535 
Elder maltreatment screen not documented; 
documentation that patient is not eligible for the elder 
maltreatment screen at the lime of the encounter 
related to one of the following reasons: (1) patient 
refuses to participate in the screening and has 
reasonable decisional capacity for self-protection, 
or (2) patient is in an urgent or emergent situation 
where time is of the essence and to delay treatment to 
perform the screening would jeopardize the patient's 
G0411 
Interactive group psychotherapy, in a partial 
health status 
hospitalization or intensive outpatient setting, 
approximately 45 to 50 minutes 
G0460 Autologous platelet rich plasma or other blood-derived 
product for non-diabetic chronic wounds/ulcers, 
including as applicable phlebotomy, centrifugation 
or mixing, and all other preparatory procedures, 
administration and dressings, per treatment 
G0465 
Autologous platelet rich plasma (prp) or other blood-
derived product for diabetic chronic wounds/ulcers, 
using an FDA-cleared device for this indication, 
G8601 
Iv thrombolytic therapy not initiated within 4.5 hours 
( <= 270 minutes) of time last known well for reasons 
documented by clinician (e.g. patient enrolled in clinical 
trial for stroke, patient admitted for elective carotid 
intervention) 
G8807 Trans-abdominal or trans-vaginal ultrasound not 
performed for reasons documented by clinician (e.g., 
patient has a documented intrauterine pregnancy [iupl) 
G8851 
Adherence to therapy was assessed at least annually 
(includes as applicable administration, dressings, 
phlebotomy, centrifugation or mixing, and all other 
through an objective informatics system or through 
self-reporting (if objective reporting is not available, 
preparatory procedures, per treatment) 
documented) 
G2137 
Back pain measured by the visual analog scale 
(vas) or numeric pain scale at three months (6 - 20 
weeks) postoperatively was greater than 3.0 and back 
pain measured by the visual analog scale (vas) or 
numeric pain scale within three months preoperatively 
and at three months (6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively 
demonstrated improvement of less than 5.0 points 
G8854 Documentation of reason(s) for not objectively 
reporting adherence to evidence-based therapy (e.g., 
patients who have been diagnosed with a terminal or 
advanced disease with an expected life span of less 
than 6 months, patients who decline therapy, patients 
who do not return for follow-up at least annually, 
patients unable to access/afford therapy, patient's 
G2139 
Back pain measured by the visual analog scale (vas) 
or numeric pain scale at one year (9 to 15 months) 
postoperatively was greater than 3.0 and back 
pain measured by the visual analog scale (vas) or 
numeric pain scale within three months preoperatively 
and at one year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively 
demonstrated improvement of less than 5.0 points 
insurance will not cover therapy) 
G8855 Adherence to therapy was not assessed at least 
annually through an objective informatics system or 
through self-reporting (if objective reporting is not 
available), reason not given 
G8924 
Spirometry results documented (fev1 /fvc < 70%) 
G2141 
Leg pain measured by the visual analog scale (vas) 
or numeric pain scale at three months (6 - 20 weeks) 
postoperatively was greater than 3.0 and leg pain 
measured by the visual analog scale (vas) or numeric 
pain scale within three months preoperatively and 
at three months (6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively 
demonstrated improvement of less than 5.0 points 
G8936 
Clinician documented that patient was not an eligible 
candidate for angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) 
inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (arb) therapy 
(eg, allergy, intolerance, pregnancy, renal failure due 
to ace inhibitor, diseases of the aortic or mitral valve, 
other medical reasons) or (eg, patient declined, other 
patient reasons) 
22 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
REVISED CODES G8942 - QS 120 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
G8942 
Functional outcome assessment using a standardized 
G9998 
Documentation of medical reason(s) for an interval of 
tool is documented within the previous 30 days 
less than 3 years since the last colonoscopy (e.g., last 
and a care plan, based on identified deficiencies is 
colonoscopy incomplete, last colonoscopy had 
documented within two days of the functional outcome 
inadequate prep, piecemeal removal of adenomas, 
assessment 
or sessile serrated polyps >= 20 mm in size, last 
G8968 
Documentation of medical reason(s) for not prescribing 
an FDA-approved anticoagulant (e.g., present or 
planned atrial appendage occlusion or ligation or 
patient being currently enrolled in a clinical trial related 
to af/atrial flutter treatment) 
G9380 
Patient offered assistance with end of life issues or 
existing end of life plan was reviewed or updated 
during the measurement period 
G9382 
Patient not offered assistance with end of life issues or 
existing end of life plan was not reviewed or updated 
during the measurement period 
colonoscopy found greater than 1 0 adenomas, 
lower gastrointestinal bleeding, or patient at high risk 
for colon cancer due to underlying medical history 
([i.e. crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, personal or 
family history of colon cancer, hereditary colorectal 
cancer syndromes]) 
J0739 
Injection, cabotegravir, 1 mg, FDA approved 
prescription, only for use as hiv pre-exposure 
prophylaxis (not for use as treatment for hiv) 
J2426 
Injection, paliperidone palmitate extended release 
(invega sustenna), 1 mg 
G9452 
Documentation of medical reason(s) for not receiving 
hcv antibody test due to limited life expectancy 
K1004 
Low frequency ultrasonic diathermy treatment device 
for home use 
G9696 
Documentation of medical reason(s) for not prescribing 
M0005 Value in primary care mips value pathway 
a long-acting inhaled bronchodilator (e.g., patient 
intolerance or history of side effects) 
M0201 
Administration of pneumococcal, influenza, hepatitis 
b, and/or covid-19 vaccine inside a patient's home; 
G9698 
Documentation of system reason(s) for not prescribing 
a long-acting inhaled bronchodilator (e.g., cost of 
treatment or lack of insurance) 
reported only once per individual home per date of 
service when such vaccine administration(s) are 
performed at the patient's home 
G9703 
Episodes where the patient is taking antibiotics 
(table 1) in the 30 days prior to the episode date 
G9717 Documentation stating the patient has had a diagnosis 
of bipolar disorder 
G9771 
At least 1 body temperature measurement equal to 
or greater than 35.5 degrees celsius (or 95.9 degrees 
fahrenheit) achieved within the 30 minutes immediately 
before or 15 minutes immediately after anesthesia end 
M1174 
Patient received at least two doses of the herpes 
zoster recombinant vaccine (at least 28 days apart) 
anytime on or after the patient's 50th birthday before or 
during the measurement period 
M1176 
Patient did not receive at least two doses of the herpes 
zoster recombinant vaccine (at least 28 days apart) 
anytime on or after the patient's 50th birthday before or 
during the measurement period 
time 
M1197 
Itch severity assessment score is reduced by 3 or more 
G9772 
Documentation of medical reason(s) for not achieving 
at least 1 body temperature measurement equal to or 
points from the initial (index) assessment score to the 
follow-up visit score 
greater than 35.5 degrees celsius (or 95.9 degrees 
fahrenheit) within the 30 minutes immediately before 
M1198 
Itch severity assessment score was not reduced by at 
least 3 points from initial (index) score to the follow-up 
or 15 minutes immediately after anesthesia end time 
visit score or assessment was not completed during 
(e.g., emergency cases, intentional hypothermia, etc.) 
the follow-up encounter 
G9773 
At least 1 body temperature measurement equal to 
M1205 
Itch severity assessment score is reduced by 3 or more 
or greater than 35.5 degrees celsius (or 95.9 degrees 
points from the initial (index) assessment score to the 
fahrenheit) not achieved within the 30 minutes 
follow-up visit score 
immediately before or 15 minutes immediately after 
anesthesia end time, reason not given 
M1206 
Itch severity assessment score was not reduced by at 
least 3 points from initial (index) score to the follow-up 
G9779 
Patients who are breastfeeding at any time during the 
visit score or assessment was not completed during 
performance period 
the follow-up encounter 
G9780 
Patients who have a diagnosis of rhabdomyolysis at 
M1207 Patient is screened for food insecurity, housing 
any time during the performance period 
instability, transportation needs, utility difficulties, and 
G9914 
Patient initiated an anti-Inf agent 
interpersonal safety 
G9938 
Patients aged 66 or older in institutional special needs 
plans (snp) or residing in long-term care with pos code 
32, 33, 34, 54, or 56 for more than 90 consecutive days 
M1208 
Patient is not screened for food insecurity, housing 
instability, transportation needs, utility difficulties, and 
interpersonal safety 
during the six months prior to the measurement period 
through december 31 of the measurement period 
G9990 
Patient did not receive any pneumococcal conjugate or 
polysaccharide vaccine on or after their 19th birthday 
and before the end of the measurement period 
G9991 
Patient received any pneumococcal conjugate or 
polysaccharide vaccine on or after their 19th birthday 
and before the end of the measurement period 
04225 Amniobind or dermabind ti, per square centimeter 
05108 
Injection, pegfilgrastim-jmdb (fulphila), biosimilar, 
0.5 mg 
05111 
Injection, pegfilgrastim-cbqv (udenyca), biosimilar, 
0.5 mg 
05120 
Injection, pegfilgrastim-bmez (ziextenzo), biosimilar, 
0.5 mg 
23 
REVISED CODES QS 122 -Tl 026 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Q5122 
Injection, pegfilgrastim-apgf (nyvepria), biosimilar, 
0.5 mg 
S9562 
Home injectable therapy, palivizumab or other 
monoclonal antibody for rsv, including administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
T1026 
Intensive, extended multidisciplinary services provided 
in a clinic setting to children with complex medical, 
physical, mental and psychosocial impairments, 
per hour 
24 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
DELETED CODES 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
C1834 
Pressure sensor system, includes all components 
G2110 
Patients 66 years of age and older with at least one 
(e.g., introducer, sensor}, intramuscular (implantable}, 
claim/encounter for frailty during the measurement 
excludes mobile (wireless) software application 
period and either one acute inpatient encounter with 
C9146 
Injection, mirvetuximab soravtansine-gynx, 1 mg 
C9147 
Injection, tremelimumab-actl, 1 mg 
a diagnosis of advanced illness or two outpatient, 
observation, ed or nonacute inpatient encounters on 
different dates of service with an advanced illness 
C9148 
Injection, teclistamab-cqyv, 0.5 mg 
C9149 
Injection, teplizumab-mzwv, 5 mcg 
C9151 
Injection, pegcetacoplan, 1 mg 
diagnosis during the measurement period or the year 
prior to the measurement period 
G8506 
Patient receiving angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) 
inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (arb) therapy 
C9152 
Injection, aripiprazole, (ability asimtufii), 1 mg 
G8818 
Patient discharge to home no later than post-operative 
C9153 
Injection, amisulpride, 1 mg 
day#7 
C9154 
Injection, buprenorphine extended-release (brixadi), 
1 mg 
G8825 
Patient not discharged to home by post-operative 
day#7 
C9155 
Injection, epcoritamab-bysp, 0.16 mg 
G8852 
Positive airway pressure therapy was prescribed 
C9156 
Flotufolastat f 18, diagnostic, 1 millicurie 
G8883 
Biopsy results reviewed, communicated, tracked and 
documented 
C9157 
Injection, tofersen, 1 mg 
G8884 
Clinician documented reason that patient's biopsy 
C9158 
Injection, risperidone, (uzedy), 1 mg 
results were not reviewed 
C9770 
Vitrectomy, mechanical, pars plana approach, with 
G8885 
Biopsy results not reviewed, communicated, tracked or 
subretinal injection of pharmacologic/biologic agent 
documented 
C9771 
Nasal/sinus endoscopy, cryoablation nasal tissue(s) 
and/or nerve(s), unilateral or bilateral 
C9788 
Opto-acoustic imaging, breast (including axilla when 
G8941 
Elder maltreatment screen documented as positive, 
follow-up plan not documented, documentation the 
patient is not eligible for follow-up plan at the time of 
the encounter 
performed), unilateral, with image documentation, 
analysis and report, obtained with ultrasound 
examination 
C9803 
Hospital outpatient clinic visit specimen collection for 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
(sars-cov-2) (coronavirus disease [covid-19]), any 
specimen source 
G8963 
Cardiac stress imaging performed primarily for 
monitoring of asymptomatic patient who had pci within 
2 years 
G8964 
Cardiac stress imaging test performed primarily for any 
other reason than monitoring of asymptomatic patient 
who had pci within 2 years (e.g., symptomatic patient, 
patient greater than 2 years since pci, initial evaluation, 
G0056 
Optimizing chronic disease management mips value 
etc) 
pathways 
G9192 
Documentation of system reason(s) for not prescribing 
G2023 
Specimen collection for severe acute respiratory 
beta-blocker therapy (eg, other reasons attributable to 
syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) (coronavirus 
the health care system) 
disease [covid-19]}, any specimen source 
G9229 
Chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis screening results 
G2024 
Specimen collection for severe acute respiratory 
not documented (patient refusal is the only allowed 
syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) (coronavirus 
exception) 
disease [covid-19]) from an individual in a snf or by a 
G9451 
Patient received one-time screening for hcv infection 
laboratory on behalf of a hha, any specimen source 
G9453 
Documentation of patient reason(s) for not receiving 
G2066 
Interrogation device evaluation(s), (remote) up to 
one-time screening for hcv infection (e.g., patient 
30 days; implantable cardiovascular physiologic 
declined, other patient reasons) 
monitor system, implantable loop recorder system, or 
subcutaneous cardiac rhythm monitor system, remote 
data acquisition(s), receipt of transmissions and 
technician review, technical support and distribution of 
results 
G9454 
One-time screening for hcv infection not received 
within 12-month reporting period and no documentation 
of prior screening for hcv infection, reason not given 
G9596 
Pediatric patient had a head ct for trauma ordered by 
G2108 
Patient age 66 or older in institutional special needs 
someone other than an emergency care provider or 
was ordered for a reason other than trauma 
plans (snp) or residing in long-term care with pos code 
32, 33, 34, 54 or 56 for more than 90 consecutive days 
during the measurement period 
G9612 
Photodocumentation of two or more cecal landmarks to 
establish a complete examination 
G2109 
Patients 66 years of age and older with at least one 
claim/encounter for frailty during the measurement 
period and a dispensed medication for dementia 
during the measurement period or the year prior to the 
G9613 
Documentation of post-surgical anatomy (e.g., right 
hemicolectomy, ileocecal resection, etc.) 
G9614 Photodocumentation of less than two cecal landmarks 
(i.e., no cecal landmarks or only one cecal landmark) 
measurement period 
to establish a complete examination 
25 
DELETED CODES G9697 - UOOOS 
New/Revised/Deleted Codes for 2024 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
Code 
Code Descriptor 
G9697 
Documentation of patient reason(s) for not prescribing 
K1024 
Non-pneumatic compression controller with sequential 
a long-acting inhaled bronchodilator 
calibrated gradient pressure 
G9715 
Patients who use hospice services any time during the 
K1025 
Non-pneumatic sequential compression garment, full 
measurement period 
arm 
G9725 
Patients who use hospice services any time during the 
K1026 
Mechanical allergen particle barrier/inhalation filter, 
measurement period 
cream, nasal, topical 
G9852 
Patients who died from cancer 
K1028 
Power source and control electronics unit for oral 
G9853 
Patient admitted to the icu in the last 30 days of life 
device/appliance for neuromuscular electrical 
stimulation of the tongue muscle, controlled by phone 
G9854 
Patient was not admitted to the icu in the last 30 days 
application 
of life 
K1029 
Oral device/appliance for neuromuscular electrical 
G9927 
Documentation of system reason(s) for not prescribing 
stimulation of the tongue muscle, used in conjunction 
an FDA-approved anticoagulation due to patient being 
with the power source and control electronics unit, 
currently enrolled in a clinical trial related to af/atrial 
controlled by phone application, 90-day supply 
flutter treatment 
K1031 
Non-pneumatic compression controller without 
G9995 
Patients who use palliative care services any time 
calibrated gradient pressure 
during the measurement period 
K1032 
Non-pneumatic sequential compression garment, 
J0610 
Injection, calcium gluconate (fresenius kabi), per 10 ml 
full leg 
J0611 
Injection, calcium gluconate (wg critical care), 
K1033 
Non-pneumatic sequential compression garment, 
per 10 ml 
half leg 
J0800 
Injection, corticotropin, up to 40 units 
M1156 
Patient received active chemotherapy any time during 
J2370 
Injection, phenylephrine hcl, up to 1 ml 
the measurement period 
J9160 
Injection, denileukin diftitox, 300 micrograms 
M1157 
Patient received bone marrow transplant any time 
during the measurement period 
K1001 
Electronic positional obstructive sleep apnea treatment, 
with sensor, includes all components and accessories, 
any type 
M1158 
Patient had history of immunocompromising conditions 
prior to or during the measurement period 
K1002 
Cranial electrotherapy stimulation (ces) system, 
S0020 
Injection, bupivicaine hydrochloride, 30 ml 
any type 
S0030 
Injection, metronidazole, 500 mg 
K1003 
Whirlpool tub, walk-in, portable 
S0073 
Injection, aztreonam, 500 mg 
K1005 
Disposable collection and storage bag for breast milk, 
S0077 
Injection, clindamycin phosphate, 300 mg 
any size, any type, each 
S0166 
Injection, olanzapine, 2.5 mg 
K1006 
Suction pump, home model, portable or stationary, 
S0171 
Injection, bumetanide, 0.5 mg 
electric, any type, for use with external urine 
management system 
K1009 
Speech volume modulation system, any type, including 
U0003 
Infectious agent detection by nucleic acid (dna or 
rna); severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
(sars-cov-2) (coronavirus disease [covid-19]), amplified 
all components and accessories 
probe technique, making use of high throughput 
K1013 
Enema tube, with or without adapter, any type, 
technologies as described by CMS-2020-01-r 
replacement only, each 
U0004 2019-ncov coronavirus, sars-cov-2/2019-ncov 
K1014 
Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 4 bar linkage 
or multiaxial, fluid swing and stance phase control 
K1015 
Foot, adductus positioning device, adjustable 
(covid-19), any technique, multiple types or subtypes 
(includes all targets), non-cdc, making use of 
high throughput technologies as described by 
CMS-2020-01-r 
K1016 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator for electrical 
stimulation of the trigeminal nerve 
uooos Infectious agent detection by nucleic acid (dna or 
rna); severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
K1017 
Monthly supplies for use of device coded at K1016 
(sars-cov-2) (coronavirus disease [covid-19]), amplified 
K1018 
External upper limb tremor stimulator of the peripheral 
nerves of the wrist 
K1019 
Supplies and accessories for external upper limb 
tremor stimulator of the peripheral nerves of the wrist 
probe technique, cdc or non-cdc, making use of high 
throughput technologies, completed within 2 calendar 
days from date of specimen collection (list separately 
in addition to either hcpcs code U0003 or U0004) as 
described by CMS-2020-01-r2 
K1020 
Non-invasive vagus nerve stimulator 
K1021 
Exsufflation belt, includes all supplies and accessories 
K1022 
Addition to lower extremity prosthesis, endoskeletal, 
knee disarticulation, above knee, hip disarticulation, 
positional rotation unit, any type 
K1023 
Distal transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator, 
stimulates peripheral nerves of the upper arm 
26 
Deleted Codes Crosswalk 
Deleted Code 
C1834 
C9146 
C9147 
C9148 
C9149 
-- -- -·---·--
C9151 
C9152 
C9153 
C9154 
C9155 
C9156 
C9157 
C9158 
C9770 
C9771 
C9788 
C9803 
G0056 
G2023 
G2024 
G2066 
G2108 
G2109 
G2110 
G8506 
G8818 
Crosswalk Code 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
----
J2781 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
0857T 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Deleted Code Crosswalk Code 
G8825 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G8852 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G8883 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G8884 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G8885 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G8941 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G8963 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G8964 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9192 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9229 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9451 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9453 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9454 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9596 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9612 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9613 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9614 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9697 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9715 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9725 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9852 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9853 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9854 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9927 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
G9995 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
27 
J0610- uooos 
Deleted Codes Crosswalk 
Deleted Code 
Crosswalk Code 
Deleted Code Crosswalk Code 
J0610 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
K1031 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
J0611 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
K1032 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
J0800 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
K1033 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
J2370 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
M1156 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
J9160 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
M1157 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
K1001 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
M1158 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
K1002 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
S0020 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
K1003 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
S0030 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
K1005 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
S0073 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
K1006 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
S0077 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
K1009 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
S0166 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
K1013 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
S0171 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
K1014 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
U0003 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
this deleted code. 
K1015 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
U0004 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1016 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
U0005 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1017 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1018 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1019 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1020 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1021 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1022 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1023 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1024 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1025 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1026 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1028 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
K1029 
CMS does not provide crosswalk codes for 
this deleted code. 
28 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Circulatory System - Arteries and Veins 
Internal jugular vein 
External jugular vein 
Subclavian vein 
Pulmonary artery 
Superior vena cava 
Cephalic vein 
Heart ---i--H-__.,\-11 
Inferior vena cava ---+1-+---:::,: 
Axillary vein 
Hepatic vein 
Renal vein 
Hepatic portal vein 
Basilic vein 
Median cubital vein 
Common iliac vein 
Palmar digital veins 
Great saphenous vein ----t-t,7
Femoral vein -----+---1 
Small saphenous vein ------.LJ
Anterior tibial vein -------1-u 
Posterior tibial vein ------+++H, 
Dorsal venous arch 
Dorsal digital vein ------4;.'>::;? 
Venous system 
L.:1\...------- Internal carotid artery
External carotid artery 
Common carotid artery 
Subclavian artery 
u,..,..----- Pulmonary vein 
i---;-- Axillary artery 
-it--l-- Heart 
1---½A--\---t--- Descending aorta 
--q.=---Hl,l.4-\--- Gastric artery 
Brachia! artery 
Renal artery 
Mesenteric artery 
Common iliac artery 
Ulnar artery 
Radial artery 
Arterial palmar arch 
Digital arteries 
Anterior tibial artery 
ULIIJ..+---- Posterior tibial artery 
rrr----- Peroneal artery 
Arcuate artery 
--- Dorsal digital arteries 
Arterial system 
Circulatory System - Artery and Vein Anatomy 
Artery 
Tunica intima 
Vein 
____--:-, Endothelium-----­
Subendothelial layer 
Blood flow 
from the heart 
---.-- Blood flow 
to the heart 
Valve 
29 
30 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Circulatory System - The Pathway of 
Blood Flow Through the Heart 
Superior vena cava 
(from upper body) 
Right pulmonary 
artery (to right lung) 
® 
Right pulmonary veins 
(from right lung) 
Right atrium 
Right AV valve 
(tricuspid) 
Inferior vena cava 
(from lower body) 
Pulmonary 
valve 
Aorta 
(to body) 
Right ventricle 
Left pulmonary 
artery (to left lung) 
Left pulmonary 
veins (from left lung) 
® 
Left AV valve 
(mitral) 
Left ventricle 
Circulatory System - Electrical Conducting System 
(1) The sinoatrial (SA) node 
(pacemaker) generates impulses. 
lnternodal pathway 
(2) The impulses pause (0.1 s) at 
the atrioventricular (AV) node.
(3) The atrioventricular (AV) bundle
connects the atria to the ventricles. 
Superior vena cava 
(4) The bundle branches conduct --===
the impulses through the
interventricular septum.
(S) The Purkinje fibers depolarize the
contractile cells of both ventricles. 
Left atrium 
Purkinje fibers 
lnterventricular septum 
Right ventricle 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Circulatory System - Coronary Arteries 
Posterior descending artery 
Left marginal artery 
Right marginal artery 
Left anterior descending artery 
Circulatory System - Heart Wall 
Epicardium 
Parietal layer 
of serous pericardium 
Circulatory System - Cardiac Cycle 
Semilunar valve 
vena cava 
Right atrium 
Posterior 
vena cava 
ulmonary artery--­
lungs 
..,__ Pulmonary veins 
valve 
Left ventricle --­
-+-- Right ventricle ---
From body 
Diastole (Filling) 
---Semi lunar 
Systole (Pumping) 
valve (open) 
Pulmonary 
veins 
31 
32 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Digestive System Anatomy 
Stomach 
Liver 
Gallbladder 
Pancreas 
Duodenum 
Oral cavity 
Tongue 
Trachea -----::-----M
N 
Transverse colon -----------===-
Ascending colon 
Small intestine ----------=;;=:=::::=
Ileum 
Cecum -------------=--:.._ __ _.:g 
Appendix ----------=----------' 
Rectum 
Anus ---------'-::----2_:---------
Salivary glands 
Pharynx 
Esophagus 
Jejunum 
Digestive System - Mouth Anatomy 
Central incisor 
Lateral incisor 
Canine ----------------1--IL
Premolars -============:mr
Molars --==============::::::::::======t1 
Soft palate 
Tongue 
.---OP.,....-------------- Superior lip
Superior labial 
frenulum 
Palatoglossal arch 
Palatopharyngeal arch 
Lingual frenulum ---------f-\--)	
i-",
Uvula 
Sublingual papilla 
Vestibule -------------QR
::llllal ..... 
Oro pharynx 
Gingivae (gums) 
Inferior labial 
frenulum 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Digestive System - Tongue Anatomy 
.----------- Median glossoepiglottic fold 
Palatopharyngeal arch 
Lingual tonsil ---------
------ Palatoglossal arch 
-------- Vallate papillae 
------- Fungiform papillae 
Midline groove ------------;,..---=---­
of tongue 
Digestive System - Liver, Gallbladder, Pancreas 
Liver 
Gallbladder 
Minor duodenal papilla 
Major duodenal papilla 
Duodenum 
Right and left 
hepatic ducts 
Cystic duct 
Common 
hepatic duct 
Body of pancreas 
Head of pancreas 
33 
34 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Digestive System - Stomach Anatomy 
Muscularis 
Longitudinal 
layer 
Circular 
layer 
Oblique 
layer 
Duodenum----
Duodenal bulb 
Esophagus 
I 
Cardia 
/-- Fundus
Body of stomach 
Pylorus 
Gastric rugae 
Lower esophageal 
sphincter 
Mucosa 
,,______ Greater curvature 
Digestive System - Small Intestine Anatomy 
Mucosa 
Submucosa 
Muscularis 
Intestinal villi 
Intestinal villi 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Digestive System - Large Intestine Anatomy 
Right colic flexure 
(hepatic flexure) 
Ascending colon 
Appendix 
(or vermiform appendix) 
Rectum 
Anal canal 
Elastic cartilage 
Pinna 
Transverse colon 
Sigmoid colon 
Left colic flexure 
(splenic flexure) 
Descending colon 
Internal hemorrhoid 
tissue 
Rectum 
sphinter 
External hemorrhoid tissue 
Anus
Ear Anatomy 
Muscle 
Ear canal 
External Ear 
Skull 
bone 
Semicircular 
canals 
lncus 
Vestibule 
Round window 
Inner Ear 
6--- Vestibular nerve 
Cochlear nerve 
Cochlea 
Oval window 
(deep to stapes) 
To nasopharynx 
7--- Eustachian tube 
35 
36 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Ear Anatomy - Inner Ear 
Scala vestibuli --------,<::.....a...,,.-.....::..,__
Cochlear duct ______ ,....,,.. __ 
Title: 1406 Cochlea.jpg, Author: OpenStax, Source: https//cnx.org/contents/FPtKI zmh@8.25:fEl3C8Ot@l0/Preface, License/Permission:This file is licensed under the 
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license., URL link: https//en.wikiversity.org/wiki/File:l 406_Cochlea.jpg 
Endocrine System Anatomy and Hormones 
Hypothalamus 
TRH, CRH, GHRH 
Dopamine 
Somatostatin 
Vasopressin 
Thyroid and 
Parathyroid 
T3, T4, Calcitonin 
PTH 
Adrenal 
Androgens 
Glucocorticoids 
Adrenaline 
Noradrenaline 
Kidney------------r 
Calcitriol, Renin 
Erythropoietin 
Testes---------.\­
Androgens 
Estradiol, lnhibin 
,---- Pineal gland 
Melatonin 
Pituitary gland 
GH, TSH, ACTH 
FSH, MSH, LH 
Prolactin, Oxytocin 
Vasopressin 
Thymus 
Thymopoietin 
Stomach 
Gastrin, Ghrelin 
Histamine 
Somatostatin 
Neuropeptide Y 
Pancreas 
Insulin, Glucagon 
Somatostatin 
Ovary, Placenta 
Estrogens 
Progesterone 
,------- Uterus 
Prolactin, Relaxin 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Ciliary body 
Iris 
Anterior chamber 
Cornea 
Lens 
Conjunctiva 
Eye Anatomy 
Sciera 
Retina 
Artery 
Optic nerve 
Vein 
Rectus medialis 
Ora serrata 
Eye Musculature 
Superior oblique 
(downward and outward movement) 
Superior rectus --------< 
(upward movement) 
Lateral rectus 
(outward movement) 
Inferior oblique 
(upward and outward movement) 
Inferior rectus 
Medial rectus 
(inward movement) 
(downward movement) 
37 
38 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Female Reproductive System Anatomy 
Vesicouterine pouch 
Labium minus 
Labium majus 
Rectouterine pouch 
Cervix 
Greater vestibular gland 
(Bartholin gland) 
Title: Blausen 0400 FemaleReproSystem 02b.png, Author: BruceBlaus., Source: Blausen.com staff (2014). ·Medical gallery of Blau sen Medical 2014'. WikiJournal of Medicine 
1 (2). DO1:10.15347/wjm/2014.0l 0. ISSN 2002·4436.Modified by User:ArnoldReinhold who released mods under CC0, License/Permission: This file is licensed under the 
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported license., URL link: httpsJ/commons.wikimedia.org/wik1/Hle:Blausen_040U_remaleReproSystem_0,b.png 
Female Reproductive System - Uterus and 
Adnexa Anatomy 
Ampulla 
Fimbriae 
Ovary 
Endometriu 
Myometrium 
Perimetrium 
Fornix of vagina 
Fund us of uterus 
Fallopian tube 
Secondary 
follicle 
Primary 
follicle 
Corpus)"" 
} ·· 
Fertilization occurs 
here 
Antral follicle 
Primordial follicles 
luteum Corpus
albicans 
Uterine body cavity 
Graafian follicle 
Internal os of cervix
} 
Cervix 
Cervical canal 
of 
uterus 
External os 
of vaginal cervix 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Female Reproductive System 
Breast Anatomy 
Pectoralis minor 
Fatty tissue 
lntercostal muscles 
Nipple 
Areola 
Skin 
Pectoralis major 
Perineum Anatomy 
Labia minora 
Mons pubis 
Prepuce of
C-------- clitoris
Anus 
Glans of 
clitoris 
Labia majora 
Urethral 
opening 
Vestibule 
Vagina 
Perineum 
lntegumentary System Anatomy 
Stratum corneum 
Epidermis 
Dermis 
l------
------
------
---========-
-
,aaaa000 
Hair 
Sebum 
Substrate 
(hyaluronic acid) 
--------'-- Collagen 
------- Elastin 
---- Superficial fascia 
Blood vessel c--,.\::1:\'?°-;-;.::111i ! 
Subcutaneous fat [_..-----i.-----·--------
Deep fascia 
Muscle 
[.._ ____ -+--------------
Sweat gland 
39 
40 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Lymphatic System Anatomy 
Palatine tonsil 
Cervical lymph nodes 
____________ Left jugular trunk 
Thoracic duct 
Peyer's patches 
._--e&-r"f:--+--.....,.,------',--------- Cisterna chyli 
Right lumbar trunk -----t-""""7":h"-----JH:'"'7"-----;;i""'lb-£-:,g.J!!.....Jl-----.3,,,---l-- Left lumbar trunk 
Appendix 
Lymphatic System - Lymph Nodes of the Head and Neck 
Occipital nodes---------;[ 
Superior cervical nodes ---------1 
Posterior cervical nodes ----------,[ 
Mastoid nodes 
Preauricular nodes 
/
,--"',----------- Parotid nodes 
.,... __ --;;-------- Submental nodes
Submandibular nodes 
c------------- Deep cervical nodes 
--,------------Supraclavicular nodes 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Lymphatic System 
Humoral Immunity 
Lymphocyte 
Bacteria 
.\y 
Antibody 
Antigen 
Bacteria 
Antibody 
Antigen 
Lymph Node Anatomy 
Artery 
Efferent 
lymphatic ---...,­
vessel 
Lymphatic nodules 
Capsule 
Trabeculae 
Intermediate 
cortical sinus 
Male Reproductive System Anatomy 
Seminal vesicle 
Vas deferens 
Ureter 
Urinary bladder 
.. 
---■.---, 
Pubic symphysis 
Prostate 
Ejaculatory duct 
Bulbourethral gland 
Bulbospongiosus muscle 
Spermatic cord 
Epididymis 
• 
t 
Dartos 
Scrotum 
Testis 
? Suspensocy !;gament
@ Cocp,s spong;osum
Scrotal septum 
Penis 
Corpus cavernosum 
----- Corona 
A FocesBn 
Glans penis 
Urethra 
41 
42 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Male Reproductive System - Testicle Anatomy
---------- Spermatic cord 
Blood vessels and nerves ---------
Ductus (Vas) cjeferens ---------,c,: 
Efferent ductule ---------,:..-"'----A-... 
Rete testis 
B------ Testis 
CillillD ----- Tunica vaginal is 
-- --- Tunica albuginea 
---'--------- Cavity oftunica vaginalis 
Male Reproductive System - Penis Anatomy 
Flaccid penis 
Dorsal nerve 
Dorsal artery 
Deep dorsal vein 
Corpus cavernosum 
(not filled with blood) 
Deep artery 
Urethra 
Corpus spongiosum 
Erect penis 
Compressed urethra 
Dilated dorsal vein 
Corpus cavernosum 
filled with blood 
Arteries are increased 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Skeletal Anatomy 
Tarsals 
Metatarsals 
, 
,., "(/' 
Phalanges 
T" 
S----- Parietal bone 
_1-_____ Occipital bone
Temporal bone 
7 cervical vertebrae 
12 thoracic vertebrae 
5 lumbar vertebrae 
Greater trochanter 
Musculoskeletal System - Bone Structure 
Epiphysis 
Meta phys is 
Diaphysis 
Metaphysis 
Epiphysis 
f---- UVW/!------Spongy bone
 
:::	
<OW 
I
I 
I
/ 
Endosteum 
t-------- Medullary cavity
1--------- Yellow bone marrow
:..-------- Compact bone 
-------- Periosteum 
"--------- Blood vessel 
-'-'--------- Articular (hyaline) cartilage 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Musculature Anatomy 
FRONT VIEW 
Neck 
Omohyoid ------+--` 
Sternohyoid ____ ....,...,_ _ _, 
Sternocleidomastod 
Trapezius ----
Shoulders 
Deltoid anterior head -a­
Deltoid middle head --+-e, 
Abs 
Serratus anterior 
External oblique 
Tendinous inscriptions 
Rectus abdominis 
Thighs 
Tensor fasciae latae --b 
Sartorius ---c 
Pectineus ---d 
Adductor longus -----' 
Gracilis ____ __, 
Calves 
Gastrocnemius 
Tibialis anterior 
Peroneus longus 
Extensor digitorum langus --e 
Soleus --f 
Tibia (bone) ---gq.-r
,___ __ _ 
Chest 
Pectoralis major 
Pectoralis minor (beneath major) 
Biceps 
.---- Biceps brachii short head 
..__r--- Biceps brachii long head 
Forearms 
ct----- Brachioradialis 
--- Palmaris longus 
,__ __ Extensor carpi ulnaris 
Flexer carpi radial is 
Abductor pollicis longus 
Extensor pollicis brevis 
Extensor pollicis long us 
Vastus lateralis 
Vastus medialis 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Musculature Anatomy 
BACK VIEW 
Back 
Teres minor -----+ 
Rhomboid major ----­
lnfraspinatus --M 
Teres major 
Deltoid posterior head 
Forearms 
Extensor carpi ulnaris 
Flexor carpi ulnaris 
Brachioradialis --N 
Glutes 
Gluteus medius 
Gluteus maximus ---
Calves 
Gastrocnemius 
Soleus 
Peroneus brevis --­
Flexor hallucis longus ---P --- , 
Triceps 
O- Triceps brachii long head 
Medial head 
Triceps brachii lateral head 
Trapezius 
Latissimus dorsi 
Erector spinae (deep) 
Thoracolumbar fascia 
llotibial band 
Biceps femoris 
Semitendinosus 
,__ __ Adductor mag nus 
'---- Gracilis 
.___ ___ Semimembranosus 
45 
46 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Striated Muscle Structure 
Nucleus 
Striations 
Striated 
muscle tissue 
Muscle fiber----
Bundles of muscle fibers----
Skeletal muscle fiber 
The abdomen of skeletal muscle-----
Fascia 
Bone 
Musculoskeletal System - Facial Muscles 
Frontalis 
Procerus 
Temporalis 
Levator labii superioris 
Zygomaticus 
Zygomaticus 
Risoriu 
Platys 
Depressor labii inferioris 
Orbicularis oris 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Skull Anatomy 
8 
9 
10 
11 
14 
15 
1 6 
17 
18 
19 
2 3  
1 
2 
4 
6 
7 
12 
13 
20 
21 
LU--:--	===:::::- 2 2
--r-----24 
Frontal view 
1. Coronal suture 
2. Frontal bone 
3. Supraorbital foramen
4. Parietal bone 
5. Supraorbital margin 
6. Glabella 
7. Temporal bone 
8. Optic canal 
9. Superior orbital fissure 
1 0. Ethmoid bone 
11. Lacrimal bone 
12. Sphenoid bone 
13. Nasal bone
14. Inferior orbital fissure
15. Palatine bone 
16. lnfraorbital foramen
4 

1 
 2
2
6 
25 
10 
7 
11 
27 
28 
13 
29 
3 2  
20 
30 
31 
21 
24 
Lateral view 
17. Middle nasal concha
18. Inferior nasal concha
19. Nasal septum 
20. Zygomatic bone 
21. Maxilla
22.Teeth
23. Mental foramen
24. Mandible
25. Squamous suture
26. Greater wing of sphenoid bone
27. Lacrimal fossa 
28. Occipital bone
29. Mastoid portion of temporal bone 
30. External acoustic meatus 
31. Mandibular fossa 
32. Zygomatic process 
Musculoskeletal System - Neck, Chest, and Thorax Muscles 
Sternocleidomastoid --------.;. 
Trapezius -----___,,..-:-· 
Biceps brachii 
Rectus abdominis 
47 
48 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Back Muscles 
Sternocleidomastoid 
Splenius capitus 
Spine of scapula 
Deltoid 
Teres major ---___; 
lnfraspinatus 
Rhomboid major 
External oblique -----.m 
abdominal 
Lumbar triangle 
Trapezius 
Acromion process 
""5:"'-------=>;--- Scapula inferior angle 
M-'----'----- Serratus anterior 
defgh-t---...!,--- Right longissimus thoracis 
Serratus posterior inferior 
External oblique 
Internal oblique 
i 
Right iliocostalis lumborum
-----j 
Iliac crest 
Musculoskeletal System - Arm and Forearm Muscles 
Supinator 
Anconeus 
Olecranon of ulna 
Extensor carpi ulnaris 
Flexor carpi ulnaris 
Extensor indicis (deep) 
Extensor digiti minimi 
Abductor digiti mini mi 
Posterior View 
..._ ___________ Trapezius
________ Deltoid 
________ lnfraspinatus 
Teres major 
-------- Latissimus dorsi
:::::=-------- Triceps brachii 
Biceps brachii 
1---------- Brachioradialis 
:---------- Extensor carpi radialis longus 
------ Abductor pollicis longus 
it:"------ Extensor pollicis brevis 
Extensor digitorum 
Dorsal interosseous 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Shoulder Anatomy 
Sternoclavicular Clavicle Acromioclavicular 
Acromioclavicular 
Coracoid Clavicle Sternoclavicular 
joint 
joint 
joint 
process 
joint 
Sternum 
Acromio 
Bursa 
-89.-Supraspinatus
--
Subscapularis 
, 
c.......;'----,---- lnfraspinatus 
:+---1---Teres minor 
-+---- Humerus 
.+-------+----- Scapula 
Sternum 
Back view 
Front view 
Musculoskeletal System - Elbow Joint Structure 

t
Humerus 
\ 
Capitulum 
Head 
; 
Radius 
Articular 
1 
__,E-----'c....._.,'7 
cartilage 
Lateral view 
Humerus< 
Medial 
epicondyle 
Olecranon 
fossa 
Lateral 
Lateral 
epicondyle 
epicondyle Head of radius 
Head of radius 
Posterior view 
Anterior view 
Medial epicondyle 
Capitulum 
Ulna 
49 
50 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Hand Bones and Joints 
Distal phalanges 	=========
-1] 
Distal interphalengeal 
joint (DIP joint) 
Middle phalanges 
Proximal interphalan 
joint (PIP j 
Proximal phalanges 
Metacarpophalengeal------\.,,,.l
joint (MCP joint) 
Metacarpals 
Hamate 
Triquetral 
Pisiform 
Lunate 
Phalanx bones 
J
Metaca,pal bones 
Trapezium J
Carpal bones 
Trapezoid 
Capitate 
Scaphoid 
Musculoskeletal System - Hand Anatomy 
(Right Hand, Dorsal View) 
Tendon of extensor 
digiti minimi 
---------ill'.L/J
Abductor digiti minimi ------+-
Tendon of extensor 
K,-"L-------- pollicis longus 
•M-.-------------- Extensor digitorum
--ft.N------ Dorsal interossei 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Hand Anatomy 
(Right Hand, Pa/mar View, Deep) 
Flexor retinaculum (cut) 
Opponens pollicis 
Opponens digiti minimi 
Palmar interossei 
 
Tendonsofflexo, d;g;to'"m superlic;al;s 
Tendons of flexor digitorum profundus 
(Right Hand, Pa/mar View, Superficial) 
Tendon of 
palmaris longus (cut)-------------. 
Flexor retinaculum ------9 
Abductor pollicis brevis ------8 
Tendon of flexor 
pollicis long us-----; 
Lumbricals 
+-,:------Tendon of 
flexor carpi ulnaris 
r1------- Abductor digiti minimi 
---H-;------ Opponens digiti mini mi 
•-+-I-!----- Flexor digiti minimi brevis 
Tendons of 
flexor digitorum superficial is 
Tendons of 
flexor digitorum profundus 
51 
52 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Spine 
Cervical vertebrae 
Thoracic vertebrae 
Lumbar vertebrae 
Sacrum and coccyx 
Musculoskeletal System - Pelvic Girdle 
., 
Pelvis 
Front view 
Base of sacrum 
Iliac crest
---------­
lliac fossa --------
Greater trochanter 
of femur 
Lesser trochanter 
of femur ___ H"'ff:!.:..:_.:.:...__I,
Femur----
Sacroiliac joint 
Anterior superior 
.s------ iliac spine 
J-----Pelvic inlet 
------Anterior inferior 
iliac spine 
------- Greater sciatic
foramen 
Hip joint 
Pubic bone 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Leg Muscles 
Sartorius ---F"1--11 
Gracilis -----&,-!II 
Rectus femoris 
Vastus medialis 
Tibialis anterior 
Pectineus 
Adductor longus 
Gracilis 
Sartorius 
Vastus medialis 
Gastrocnemius 
lliopsoas 
GH--- Pectineus 
f------- Adductor longus 
Adductor magnus 
I-- Vastus lateralis 
Gastrocnemius _,_,,,. 
Peroneus longus 
Extensor digitorum longus 
'--JK------ Soleus -----­
Flexor digitorum longus ---
.;;.:s'---- Gluteus maximus 
Ulr½---- Biceps femoris 
L--- Vastus lateralis 
LUIII,..._ ____ 
Semitendinosus 
Semimembranosus 
Plantaris 
----- Peroneus longus 
Peroneus brevis 
Sartorius 
Gluteus medius 
Tensor fasciae 
latae 
Greater 
trochanter 
Gracilis 
Rectus femoris 
lliotibial tract 
Semitendinosus 
Vastus lateralis 
Tibialis anterior 
Gastrocnemius 
Tibialis anterior 
Peroneus longus 
Soleus 
Achilles tendon 
Peroneus brevis 
ANTERIOR 
LATERAL 
POSTERIOR 
53 
54 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Knee and Leg Anatomy
Quadriceps femoris muscle 
Suprapatellar fat pad 
Suprapatellar bursa 
Prepatellar bursa 
Patellar tendon/ligament 
· Joint capsule
Infra patellar fat pad 
Meniscus 
Superficial and 
Tibia 
deep infra patellar bursa 
Musculoskeletal System - Foot Anatomy 
(Right Foot, Plantar (Inferior) View, Superficial) 
Superficial transverse 
metatarsal ligaments 
Lateral plantar fascia 
ll\.WH'A'=fll-44---HJYll,!;fll-l^----- Digital slips of plantar 
Lateral band of plantar aponeurosis ----H+-E+ 
(calcaneometatarsal ligament) 
Lateral process and medial process 
oftuberosity of calcaneus 
aponeurosis 
H+------- Medial plantar fascia 
V'ft-,lfttt,,------- Abductor hallucis muscle 
Plantar aponeurosis 
. .,____ Medial calcaneal branches 
of tibial nerve and posterior 
tibial artery 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Musculoskeletal System - Foot Bones and Tendons 
Fibula 
Tibia 
Calcaneus 
Cuboid 
Tarsals 
Metatarsals 
Fibula 
Calcaneal "Achilles" tendon 
Calcaneus 
Inferior fibular 
(peroneal) 
retinaculum 
Navicular 
Proximal 
Medial 
(Right Foot, Plantar (Inferior) View, Deep) 
Distal phalanx of 
the great toe 
Metatarsal 
-t---...::,,._---Lumbrical 
muscles 
Flexor digitorum 
brevis tendon 
Flexer digitorum 
brevis muscle 
Phalanges 
Tarsals 
Tibia 
Superior extensor retinaculum 
/ 
Inferior extensor retinaculum 
Extensor digitorum longus tendons 
Collateral ligaments 
Metatarsals 
Phalanges 
55 
56 
Brachia! plexus 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Nervous System Anatomy 
:P\------------------ Brain 
Cerebellum 
Spinal cord 
Musculocutaneous nerve ---------r-11 
Radial nerve 
1-------1ntercostal nerve
Lumbar plexus 
Median nerve 
lliohypogastric nerve 
Pudenda! nerve 
Ulnar nerve 
Sciatic nerve 
Common peroneal nerve _________ .,....,. 
Saphenous nerve 
Deep peroneal nerve 
Superficial peroneal nerve 
Tibial nerve 
Nervous System - Brain Anatomy 
Brain Lobes 
Primary motor 
Central 
sulcus 
cortex 
Frontal lobe 
Prefrontal 
cortex 
Olfactory bulb 
Primary somatosensory 
cortex 
Parietal lobe 
Ventricles in the Brain 
Lateral ventricles 
Third ventricle 
Wernicke's area 
Cerebrum 
Occipital lobe 
Cerebellum 
Spinal cord 
Foramen of 
--:---...:.__--_
-Cerebellum
Q 
R Cerebral 
monroe 
/ 
aqueduct 
The 
Pons 
Midbrain
1/
/ 
brainstem 
Medulla 
Fourth 
S ventricle
Temporal lobe 
Brain stem 
oblongata 
Spinal cord 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Nervous System - Brain Anatomy (Median Section) 
Limbic lobe 
Precentral gyrus 
Central sulcus 
Fmntal lobe
 
Corpus callosum 
Septum pellucidum 
Hypothalamus 
Optic chiasm 
Hypophysis 
(pituitary gland) 
Temporal lobe 
Mamillary body 
Pons 
Medulla oblongata 
Medulla spinalis 
Postcentral gyrus 
Parietal lobe 
Fornix 
Parieto-occipital sulcus 
0 
Ocdpltal lobe 
X -- Thalamus 
Corpora quadrigemina 
Fourth ventricle 
Aqueduct of the midbrain 
Nervous System - Cranial Nerves 
Pons----
Medulla 
Olfactory nerve fibers (I) 
Optic nerve (11) 
Oculomotor nerve (111) 
Trochlear nerve (IV) 
Trigeminal nerve (V) 
Abducens nerve (VI) 
Facial nerve (VII) 
Vestibulocochlear nerve (VIII) 
Glossopharyngeal nerve (IX) 
Vagus nerve (X) 
Accessory nerve (XI) 
Hypoglossal nerve (XII) 
57 
58 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Nervous System - Nerve Structure 
Spinal nerve 
. Perineurium 
Unmyelinated 
nerve fiber 
Epineurium 
Blood vessels 
Fascicle 
___ Myelinated
nerve fiber 
Nerve fibers 
Endoneurium 
Cross section 
Nervous System - Parasympathetic Nerves 
Pelvic splanchnic nerves 
Constricts pupils 
Stimulates flow 
Constricts bronchi 
Slows heartbeat 
Stimulates peristalsis 
and secretion 
Stimulates bile 
release 
Contracts bladder 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Nervous System - Sympathetic Nerves 
Tl 
Dilates pupils
Inhibits salivation
Relaxes bronchi
Accelerates heartbeat
Inhibits peristalsis
and secretion
Stimulates glucose 
production and release
Secretes adrenaline
and noradrenaline
Inhibits bladder contraction
Stimulates orgasm
Respiratory System Anatomy 
Upper respiratory tract 
Lower respiratory tract 
Apex ---------X
Bronchi ---------7.c_t	
r
✓ff: 
Superior lobe
Middle lobe
Inferior lobe_---?---
Apex
Superior lobe
V 
Obl;quefissu,e
.__ ______ Inferior lobe
Left lung
Right lung
Carina of trachea 
Notch for the heart
59 
Larynx 
60 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Respiratory System - Larynx Anatomy 
Tongue 
Epiglottis 
Nasal cavity 
{
upraglottis 
Vocal fold 
Glottis 
Subglottis /-
Oral cavity 
Epiglottis 
Thyrohyoid ligament 
Thyroid cartilage 
Cricoid cartilage 
Tracheal cartilage 
Hyoid bone 
Respiratory System - Lung Function 
Normal airway 
Cross section of a bronchiole 
with alveoli 
Relaxed 
smooth 
muscles 
Normal alveoli 
Gas exchange within 
alveoli 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Respiratory System - Nose and Throat Anatomy 
Frontal sinus 
Nasal bone 
Nasal cavity-----✓L
Nasal vestibule -----:.! 
Middle turbinate 
Superior turbinate 
Sphenoid sinus 
Inferior turbinate 
---------_ir,"i-f.-M'.!!-'--- -=--fhtt------- Soft palate
Hard palate 
• 
Genioglossus -
muscle 
Mandible 
Hyoid bone 
Thyroid cartilage 
Trachea 
___..N!/',!,;+------ Pharynx
l'a,O-:...--:..,t,Pe.------ Uvula 
Tonsil 
Lingual tonsil 
Epiglottis 
Vocal cords 
,..QR
------- Esophagus 
J 
: 
t\·• 
Respiratory System - Sinus Anatomy 
Frontal sinus 
E> 
/ 
61 
62 
Anatomical Illustrations 
Urinary System Anatomy 
Descending aorta 
Inferior vena cava 
Renal artery 
Right kidney 
Left kidney 
Ureter -----------fl 
•4--------- Ureter
Bladder 
Urethra -------------1-
Nerve that tells brain 
the bladder is full 
Nerve that tells 
bladder to open 
Urinary System - Kidney Anatomy 
Right kidney 
Adrenal gland 
Descending aorta 
Left kidney 
Renal artery (red) 
Renal vein 
Ureter 
Renal capsule 
Cortex 
Renal pyramid 
Renal pelvis 
Segmental 
artery 
Medulla 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
A-Hydrocort® J1710
Abatacept J0129
Abciximab J0130
Abdominal pad, TLSO L 1270
Abduction
Control, hip orthosis, hip joint 
Dynamic, adjustable L 1680 
Flexible 
Frejka type L 1600, L 1610 
Pavlik harness L 1620 
Semi-flexible, Van Rosen type L 1630 
Static 
Adjustable, llfeld type, prefabricated L 1650 
Pelvic band or spreader bar L 1640 
Plastic, prefabricated L 1660 
Control, lower extremity orthosis, hip joint L2624 
Pillow (miscellaneous durable medical equipment) E1399 
Restrainer, shoulder L3650 
Canvas and webbing L3660 
Vest type L3675 
Rotation bar 
Footl3150 
Adjustable shoe-styled positioning device L3160 
Including shoes L3140 
Prefabricated, off-the-shelf, each L3170 
Lower extremity 
Hip involvement, jointed, adjustable L2300 
Straight L2310 
Abecma Q2055 
Ablation 
Catheter 
Electrophysiological 
3D or vector mapping C1732 
Other than 3D or vector mapping or cool-tip C 1733 
Endovascular, noncardiac C 1888 
Extravascular, any modality C 1886 
Tissue, extravascular C1886 
Ultrasound, focused C9734 
Transbronchial C9751 
Abobotulinumtoxin type A J0586 
Abortion, induced 
17 to 24 weeks S2260 
25 to 28 weeks S2265 
29 to 31 weeks S2266 
32 or greater S2267 
Drug induced, with other services S0199 
Absorption dressing A6251-A6256 
Access Catheters A4300-A4301 
Accessories 
Ambulation devices E0153-E0 159 
Beds E0271-E0280, E0300-E0316 
Dialysis E1500-E1699 
Wheelchairs E0950-E1030, E2398, E2626-E2633, 
K0001-K0108, K0669 
Accu-Chek® or similar product 
Blood glucose meter E0607 
Test strips, box of 50 A4253 
Acetaminophen J0131, J0134, J0136 
Acetate concentrate for hemodialysis A4708 
Acetazolamide sodium J1120 
Acetylcysteine 
Inhalation solution J7604, J7608 
Injection J0132 
Acid concentrate for hemodialysis A4709 
Activated carbon filter for hemodialysis A4680 
Activity therapy 
45 minutes or more G0176 
Per 15 minutes H2032 
Acyclovir J0133 
Adalimumab J0135 
Adapter 
Breast pump A4282 
Electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device Q0478 
Neurostimulator C 1883 
Oxygen accessory E 1358 
Pacing lead C1883 
Pneumatic ventricular assist device Q0504 
Addition, see a/so Orthotic devices 
Cushion socket 
Above knee L5648 
Below knee L5646 
Harness upper extremity 
Dual cable L6676 
Single cable L6675 
Interface replacement for halo procedure L0861 
Orthotic components, lower extremity K0672, L2750, 
L2760, L2780-L2861 
Prosthesis components 
Adjustable heel height L5990 
SACH foot L5970 
Torsion mechanism, upper extremity joint orthotic L3891 
Wrist unit, flexion, extension L6620 
Adenosine J0153 
Adhesive 
Bandages 
Compression 
High A6452 
Light A6448-A6450 
Medium A6451 
Conforming A6442-A6447 
Gauze A6216-A6230, A6402-A6404 
Padding A6441, S8430 
Self-adherent A6453-A6455 
With zinc paste A6456 
Barrier C1765 
Disc or foam pad A5126 
Dressing 
Composite 
16 sq. in. or less A6203 
More than 16 sq. in. but less than or equal to 
48 sq. in. A6204 
More than 48 sq. in A6205 
Foam A6214 
Gauze 
16 sq. in. or less A6219 
More than 16 sq. in. but less than or equal to 
48 sq. in. A6220 
More than 48 sq. in. A6221 
Hydrocolloid 
16 sq. in. or less A6234 
® New index entry 
63 
Adjustment - Alternating pressure mattress/pad 
More than 16 sq. in. but less than or equal to 48 sq. 
in. A6238 
More than 48 sq. in. A6239 
Hydrogel 
16 sq. in. or lessA6245 
More than 16 sq. in. but less than or equal to 48 sq. 
in. A6246 
More than 48 sq. in. A6247 
Specialty 
16 sq. in. or less A6254 
More than 16 sq. in. but less than or equal to 48 sq. 
in. A6255 
More than 48 sq. in. A6256 
Liquid A4364 
Ostomy A4364 
Remover A4455, A4456 
Support for breast prosthesis A4280 
Tape 
Breast prosthesis A4280 
Non waterproof A4450 
Waterproof A4452 
Tissue (wound closure) G0168 
Adjustment, gastric band S2083 
Administration 
Aerosolized drug therapy S9061 
Drug at home G0068-G0070, G0088-G0090 
Medication 
Direct observation H0033 
Oral, intramuscular and/or subcutaneous medication 
T1502 
Other than oral and/or injectable T1503 
Pain medication G9426, G9427 
Vaccine G0008-G0010 
COVID-19 M0201 
Hepatitis B G0010, M0201 
Influenza G0008, M0201, M1299, M1168-M1170, 
M1308 ® 
Pneumococcal G0009, G9990, G9991, M0201, 
M1177-M1179, M1304-M1306 ® 
Administrative, miscellaneous and investigational items 
A9150-A9999 
Adoptive immunotherapy S2107 
Ado-trastuzumab J9354 
Adrenal tissue transplant S2103 
Adrenalin J0171 
Aducanumab-avwa J0172 
Aduhelm J0172 
Advance directive S0257 
Aerosol 
Compressor E0572 
Compressor filter A7013, A7014 
MaskA7015 
AF, transient or reversible cause G9929 
Afamelanotide implant J7352 
Aflibercept C9161, J0178 ® 
AFO (ankle foot orthosis) L 1900-L 1990 
Dynamic adjustable E1815, E1830, L4397 
Fracture L2106-L2116 
Replace L4392, L4396 
Walking boot L4631 
Afstyla J7210 
Agalsidase beta J0180 
Aggrastat J3246 
Air 
Bubble detector, dialysis E 1530 
Fluidized bed E0194 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Pressure 
Elevator, heel E0370 
Pad/mattress E0186, E0197, E0372 
Travel and nonemergency transportation A0140 
Alarm 
Alert device A9280 
Pressure, dialysis E1540 
Alatrofloxacin mesylate J0200 
Albumin, human 
5%, 50 ml P9041 
5%, 250 ml P9045 
25%, 20 ml P9046 
25%, 50 ml P9047 
Albuterol, all formulations, inhalation solution 
Concentrated 
Compounded J7610 
Noncompounded J7611 
Unit dose 
Compounded J7609 
Noncompounded J7613, J7620 
Alcohol (and/or drug) 
Abuse and prevention services G0443, H0001-H0030, 
H0047-H0050, H2034-H2036, T1006-T1012 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) H0047 
Screening G9621, G9622, G9624 
Structured, with intervention 
5-14 minutes G2011 
15-30 minutes G0396
Greater than 30 minutes G0397
Per pint A4244 
Screening G2196-G2202 
Services H0047-H0050 
Testing collection and handling only H0048 
Unhealthy use of G2196, G2200 
WipesA4245 
Aldesleukin (IL2) J9015 
Alefacept J0215 
Alemtuzumab J0202 
Alert device A9280 
Alginate dressing A6196, A6197, A6198, A6199 
Alglucerase J0205 
Alglucosidase alfa J0220, J0221 
Alkaline battery 
Blood glucose monitor 
J cell A4234 
Other than J cell A4233 
Cochlear implant device replacement L8622 
External infusion pump owned by patient, alkaline K0603 
Allergen, mechanical filter, cream A7023 ® 
AlloDerm® Q4116 
AlloGen® Q4212 
Allogeneic cord blood harvest S2140 
Allograft, small intestine and liver S2053 
AlloSkin ™ 04115 
Alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor, human J0256, J0257 
Alphanate J7186 
Alprostadil 
Injection J0270 
Urethral suppository J0275 
ALS (advanced life support) 
Level 2 A0433 
Mileage A0390 
Supplies A0392-A0398 
Esophageal intubation A0396 
IV drug therapy A0394 
Alteplase recombinant J2997 
Alternating pressure mattress/pad 
Air mattress E0277 
64 
if:I) New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Powered pressure reducing mattress overlay/pad E0181, 
E0183 
Pump, replacement E0182 
Replacement pad A4640 
Alternative communication device board E1902 
Ambulance and other transport services and supplies 
A0021-A0999 
Air A0424 
Fixed wing A0430, A0435, S9960 
Rotary wing A0431, A0436, S9961 
Advanced life support (ALS) A0426, A0427, A0433 
Supplies, disposable A0392-A0398 
Attendant A0424 
Basic life support (BLS) A0428, A0429 
Supplies, disposable A0382, A0384 
Conventional A0430, A0431 
Mileage A0021, A0380, A0390, A0425, A0434, A0435, 
A0888 
Neonatal A0225 
No transport (response and treatment) A0998 
Non-emergency A0080-A0160, A0180-A0210, A0426, 
A0428,S0215 
Outside state A0021 
Oxygen A0422 
Paramedic intercept A0432 
Parking fees A0170 
Response and treatment only A0998 
Specialty care A0434 
Supplies A0382, A0384, A0392-A0398, A0422 
Unlisted A0999 
Waiting time A0422 
Ambulation device E01 00-E0159 
Amifostine J0207 
Amikacin sulfate J0278 
Amniobind Q4225 
Aminocaproic acid S0017 
Aminolevulinate J7309 
Aminolevulinic 
Ameluz J7345 
Aminolevulinic acid HCI J7308 
Aminophylline J0280 
Amniotic patch 
Human health factor 10 Q4224 
AmnioWrap2™ Q4221 
Amiodarone HCI J0282, J0283 
Amitriptyline HCI J 1320 
Ammonia N-13 A9526 
Ammonia test paper A4774 
Amnio wound Q4181 
Amnio-maxx™ Q4239 
Amnioamp-mp™ Q4250 
Amnioarmor Q4188 
Amniocore ™ Q4227, Q4298, Q4299 rt',!1 
Amniocyte plus ™ Q4242 
Amnioexcel®/Amnioexcel Plus® Q4137 
Amnion bio Q4211 
Amniorepair® Q4235 
Amniotext™ Q4245, Q4247 
Amniotic membrane Q4198, Q4294, Q4295, V2790 ® 
Amniowrap2 Q4221 
Amniply™ Q4249 
Amobarbital J0300 
Amphotericin B injection J0285 
Cholesteryl sulfate complex J0288 
Lipid complex J0287 
Liposome J0289 
Ampicillin sodium J0290 
Ampicillin sodium/sulbactam sodium J0295 
Alternative communication device board -Annual 
Amputee 
Adapter, wheelchair E0959 
Prosthesis L5000-L7600, L7900, L8400-L8465 
Stump sock L8470-L8485 
Wheelchair E1170-E1190, E1200 
Analysis 
Dose optimization S3722 
Gene analysis S3866 
Gene sequence, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy S3865 
Semen G0027 
Anaphylaxis 
Due to 
HPV vaccine M1163 
Meningococcal vaccine M1160 
Pneumococcal vaccine M1155, M1306I 
Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis vaccine M1161 
Vaccine M1219, M1311 ® 
Anastrozole, oral S0170 
Anchor/screw C1713 
Anesthesia 
Care services G9654, G9655, G9656, G9658 
Injectable A4737 
Preop no smoking instructions given G9497 
Topical A4736 
Angiography 
Balloon, transluminal C7532 
Fluorescent, nonophthalmic C9733 
Iliac and/or femoral artery G0278 
Magnetic resonance 
Abdomen C8901 
With contrast C8900 
Without contrast followed by with contrast C8902 
Breast C8903-C8908 
Chest C8910 
With contrast C8909 
Without contrast followed by with contrast C8911 
Lower extremity C8913 
With contrast C8912 
Without contrast followed by with contrast C8914 
Pelvis C8919 
With contrast C8918 
Without contrast followed by with contrast C8920 
Spinal canal and contents C8932 
With contrast C8931 
Without contrast followed by with contrast C8933 
Upper Extremity C8935 
With contrast C8934 
Without contrast followed by with contrast C8936 
Percutaneous transluminal 
Coronary C7533 
Reconstruction, aorta, CT, for vascular surgery G0288 
Anidulafungin J0348 
Anifrolumab-Fnia J0491 
Ankle-foot orthosis (AFO) L 1900-L 1990 
Dynamic, adjustable E1815 
Fabricated L2112, L2114, L2116 
Fracture custom-fabricated L2106, L2108 
Replace replacement, static AFO L4392 
Static or dynamic ankle foot orthosis L4396 
Toe E1830 
Annual 
Gynecological examination 
Clinical breast examination without pelvic evaluation 
S0613 
Established patient S0612 
New patient S0610 
Wellness visit 
Initial G0438 
Subsequent G0439 
iii!) New index entry 
65 
Antenna -Assistive listening device 
Antenna, nerve stimulation device L8696 
Anti-emetic J8498, Q0161-Q0181 
Anti-inflammatory medication Q5107-Q5111 
Anti-platelet agents G9609, G9610, G9611 
Anti-sperm antibodies test, immunobead S3655 
Antibiotic 
Home infusion therapy S9494 
Every 3 hours S9497 
Every 4 hours S9504 
Every 6 hours S9503 
Every 8 hours S9502 
Every 12 hours S9501 
Every 24 hours S9500 
Intravenous for surgical site infection (SSI) G8916-G8918 
Not prescribed or dispensed G8712 
Regimen G9498, G9505 
Not prescribed within specified time period G9287 
Prescribed within specified time period G9286 
Taken within 30 days prior to episode date G9703 
Therapy 
Not prescribed or dispensed G8708 
Prescribed or dispensed G8710, G8711, G9712 
Anticoagulant 
Not prescribed 
Medical reason G8968 
Patient reason G8969 
Reason not given G9928 
Use G9724 
Anticoagulation clinic S9401 
Antiseptic 
Chlorhexidine A4248 
Solution used to clean dialysis equipment A467 4 
Antithrombotic/aspirin therapy G8598, G8599, G9277, 
G9278 
Antiviral 
Home infusion therapy S9494-S9504 
Aortic aneurysm G9598, G9599 
Apheresis, low density lipid (LDL) S2120 
Apligrat® 04101 
Apnea monitor E0530, E0618@ 
Electrodes A4556 
Lead wires A4557 
With recording feature E0619 
Apomorphine hydrochloride J0364 
Application 
Low cost skin substitute 
Other areas C5275, C5276, C5277, C5278 
Trunk, arms, legs C5271, C5272, C5273, C5274 
Tantalum ring(s) scleral S8030 
Aprepitant injection C9145, J0185 ®l 
Aprotonin J0365 
AquaPedic® sectional gel flotation E0196 
Arbutamine HCI J0395 
Arformoterol, inhalation solution J7605 
Argatroban injection J0883, J0884, J0891, J0892, J0898, 
J0899 
Argus® II Retinal Prosthesis System, com/sup/ace misc 
L8608 
Aripiprazole J0400, J0401 
Aripiprazole lauroxil injection J1944 
Aristada initio injection J1943 
Arsenic trioxide J9017 
Artacent®O4169, 04189, 04190, 04216 
Arthrodesis C7506 
Arthroereisis, subtalar S2117 
Arthroscopy 
Knee 
Harvesting of cartilage S2112 
Removal foreign body G0289 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Shoulder 
With capsulorrhaphy S2300 
With implantation of spacer C9781 
Artificial 
Cornea L8609 
Heart system accessories L8698 
Kidney, see also Dialysis 
Larynx L8500 
Pancreas device system 
Low glucose suspend feature S1034 
Receiver S 1037 
Sensor S1035 
Transmitter S 1036 
Saliva A9155 
Ascent™ Q4213 
Asparaginase J9019-J9021 
Aspirator, Vabra A4480 
Aspirin M1055-M1057 
Assembly 
Footrest, complete, replacement K0045 
Ratchet, replacement K0050 
Assertive community treatment 
Per 15 minutes H0039 
Per diem H0040 
Assessment 
Alcohol and/or substance G0396-G0397, G2011 
Alcohol or drug H0001 
Audiologic 
Conformity evaluation V5020 
Hearing aid V5010 
Fitting/orientation/checking V5011 
Repair/modification V5014 
Hearing screening V5008 
Bone loss risk G8863 
By chaplain 09001 
Chronic care management G0506 
Decline G0036 
Depression, self-assessment S3005 
Family H1011 
Functional outcome G9227 
Geriatric S0250 
Hearing V5008-V5020 
Home T1028 
Mental health H0031 
Not possible G0037 
Nursing assessment/evaluation T1001 
Periodic assessment G2077 
Remote recorded video G2250 
Speech services 
Dysphagia screening V5364 
Language screening V5363 
Screening V5362 
Wellness S5190 
Assisted living 
Per diem T2031 
Per month T2030 
Assistive listening device 
Alerting V5269 
Cochlear implant assistive V5273 
FM/OM 
Accessories 
Direct audio input receiver V5285 
Ear level receiver V5284 
Neck loop induction receiver V5283 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) V5287 
Personal adapter/boot coupling V5289 
Personal Bluetooth® receiver V5286 
Personal transmitter V5288 
Transmitter microphone V5290 
66 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
System 
Binaural V5282 
Monaural V5281 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) V5274 
Supplies and accessories not otherwise specified (NOS) 
V5267 
TDD V5272 
Telephone amplifier V5268 
Television amplifier V5270 
Television caption decoder V5271 
Asthma 
Education S9441 
Kit S8097 
Reporting 
Not well-controlled, reason not given G9434 
Result documented G9432 
Well-controlled G9432 
Atezolizumab injection J9022 
Atropine sulfate J0461 
Atropine, inhalation solution 
Concentrated J7635 
Unit dose J7636 
Attendant care 
Per 15 min S5125 
Per diem S5126 
Audiologic assessment 
Conformity evaluation V5020 
Fitting/orientation/checking, hearing aid V5011 
Hearing aid V5010 
Repair/modification V5014 
Hearing screening V5008 
Audiometry S0618 
Auditory osseointegrated device 
Abutment length replacement L8693 
Batteries L8624 
External sound processor 
Headband or other external attachment L8692 
Replacement L8691 
Internal and external components L8690 
Transducer/actuator replacement L8694 
Transmitting cable L8618 
Augmentation 
Vertebral C7507, C7508 
Aurothioglucose J2910 
Avacincaptad C9162 ® 
Avalglucosidase alfa-ngpt J0219 
Autograft suspension C1832 
Autologous cultured chondrocytes, implant J7330 
Avelumab injection J9023 
Axicabtagene ciloleucel Q2041 
Axobiomembrane Q4211 
Axolotl 
Ambient Q4215 
Axolotl Q4210 
Cryo Q4215 
Dualgraft Q4210 
Graft Q4210 
Azacitidine J9025 
Azathioprine J7500, J7501 
Azithromycin J0456 
Azithromycin dihydrate Q0144 
Back supports L0621-L0861 
Baclofen J0475, J0476 
Bacterial sensitivity study, urine P7001 
Asthma - Battery 
Bag 
Bedside drainage A4357 
Disposable breast milk, collection and storage bag A4287 ® 
EnemaA4458 
Ostomy irrigation supply A4398, A4436, A4437 
Urinary latexA5112 
Urinary suspensory covering A5105 
Urinary, vinyl A4358 
With or without tube A4357-A4358 
Ballistocardiogram S3902 
Balloon 
Dilatation C 1726 
Tissue dissector C 1727 
Bamlanivimab M0245, M0246, Q0245 
Bandages A6413-A6461 
Adhesive A6413 
Compression 
HighA6452 
Light A6448-A6450 
Medium A6451 
Roll S8431 
Conforming A6442-A6447 
Gauze A6216-A6230, A6402-A6404 
Padding A6441, S8430 
Self- adherent A6453-A6455 
With zinc paste A6456 
Barrier adhesion C1765 
Basiliximab J0480 
Bathing supplies E0240-E0249 
Bathtub 
Chair E0240 
Rail 
Floor base E0242 
Wall E0241 
Stool or bench E0245 
Transfer bench E0247 
Heavy duty E0248 
Transfer rail E0246 
Battery 
Charger 
Oxygen accessory E 1357 
Power wheelchair accessory 
Dual mode E2367 
Single mode E2366 
Six volt L7362 
Twelve volt L7366 
Ventilator, patient owned A4613 
External infusion pump 
Alkaline 1 .5 volt K0603 
Lithium 1.5 volt A4602 
Silver oxide 
1.5 volt K0601 
3 volt K0602 
3.6 volt K0604 
4.5 volt K0605 
Glucose monitor A4233-A4236 
Hearing device L8621-L8624, V5266 
Lithium 
Electric and/or pneumatic ventricular assist Q0495 
Replacement Q0506 
External infusion pump 
1.5 volt A4602 
3.6 volt K0604 
4.5 volt K0605 
Nonprosthetic use A4601 
Replacement L7367, L7368 
® New index entry 
67 
BCG live - Bivalirudin 
Power wheelchair accessory 
Lead acid 
12 to 24 amp hour sealed K0733 
22 NF nonsealed E2360 
22 NF sealed lead E2361 
24 nonsealed E2362 
24 sealed lead E2363 
27 nonsealed E2372 
27 sealed E2371 
34 nonsealed E2358 
34 sealed E2359 
U-1 nonsealed E2364 
U-1 sealed E2365 
Lithium-based E2397 
Prosthetic L7360-L7368 
Rechargeable A4601 
Replacement A4602, A4630, A4638 
Auditory osseointegrated device L8624 
Automated external defibrillator K0607 
Blood glucose monitor A4233-A4236 
Cochlear implant device L8623, L8624 
Defibrillator K0607 
Home 
Alkaline, J cell, each A4234 
Lithium ion A4601 
Lithium, each A4235 
Other than J cell, each A4233 
Silver oxide, each A4236 
Infusion pump K0601-K0605 
Six volt L7360 
TENS A4630 
Twelve volt L7364 
Ventilator, patient owned 
Battery cables A4612 
Battery charger A4613 
Battery, heavy duty A4611 
BCG live, intravesical J9030 
Bebtelovimab M0222, M0223, Q0222 
Becaplermin gel S0157 
Beclomethasone inhalation solution J7622 
Bed 
68 
Air 
Floatation E0193 
Fluidized E0194 
Board E0273 
Cradle, any type E0280 
Crib E0300 
Hospital 
Fixed height E0250, E0291 
With mattress E0251, E0290 
Heavy-duty capacity, any type 
350 pounds to 600 pounds E0301 
With mattress E0303 
Greater than 600 pounds E0302 
With mattress E0304 
Institutional type E0270 
Pediatric E0328, E0329 
Semi-electric E0261, E0295 
Supplies E0250-E0373 
With mattress E0260, E0294 
Total electric E0266, E0297 
With mattress E0265, E0296 
Variable height E0256, E0293 
With mattress E0255, E0292 
Mattress E0271, E0272, E0277, E0371-E0373 
Pan 
Fracture E0276 
Standard E0275 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Rail E0305, E0310 
Full length E0310 
Half length E0305 
Rocking E0462 
Safety enclosure frame/canopy E0316 
Table E0274, E0315 
Bedside 
Drainage bag A4357 
Drainage bottle A5102 
Behavioral health services A9291, G0177, G0323, 
G0445-G0447, G0473, H0001-H0035, H0046, H2012, 
H2019, H2020,S9480,S9482,T1040,T1041,T2048 
Belatacept J0485 
Belimumab J0490 
Belinostat J9032 
Bellacell HD Q4220 
Belt 
Exsufflation A4468 ® 
Extremity E0945 
Ostomy A4367, A4396 
Pelvic E0944 
Thoracic, rib belt L0220 
Wheelchair E0978 
Bench, bathtub E0245 
Bendamustine HCI J9033, J9034, J9036 
Benesch boot L3212, L3213, L3214 
Benralizumab injection J0517 
Benztropine J0515 
Betadine A4246, A4247 
Betamethasone acetate and betamethasone sodium 
phosphate J0702 
Betamethasone inhalation solution J7624 
Bethanechol chloride J0520 
Bevacizumab J9035, Q5126, Q5129 ® 
Bevacizumab-awwb Q5107 
Bevacizumab-bvzr Q5118 
Bezlotoxumab injection J0565 
Bifocal, glass or plastic V2200-V2299 
Bilirubin (phototherapy) light E0202 
Bimatoprost J7351 
Binder, extremity A4465 
Bio-ConneKt® Q4161 
BioDExCel™ Q4137 
Biofeedback device E0746 
Biologicals and skin substitutes A2001-A2025, A4100, 
Q41 00-Q4304 <NJ 
Biopsy 
Bone 
Marrow, powered C1830 
With vertebroplasty C7504, C7505 
Breast 
Attempted without diagnosis G8946 
Not performed G8876, G8877 
With 
Cancer diagnosis G8875 
Magnetic resonance guidance C7502 
Stereotactic guidance C7501 
Cervical node(s) C7503 
Lung, plug C2613 
Prostate G0416 
Biosimilars Q5101-Q5124 
BioWound™ Q4217 
Bipolar/personality disorder G9394 
Biperiden lactate J0190 
Bitolterol mesylate, inhalation solution 
Concentrated J7628 
Unit dose J7629 
Bivalirudin J0583 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Bladder 
Calculi irrigation solution Q2004 
Injury G9625, G9626, G9627 
Blinatumomab J9039 
Blinded administration convulsive therapy G2000 
Blinded procedure 
For heart failure C9782, C9792 ® 
For Implantation of coronary sinus reduction device C9783 
For lumbar stenosis G0276 
Blood 
Glucose monitor E0607, E2100-E2103 
Glucose test A4253 
Granulocytes, pheresis P9050 
Ketone test A4252 
Leak detector, dialysis E1560 
Leukocytes reduced P9051 
Mucoprotein P2038 
Plasma P9023, P9070, P9071 
Frozen, fresh C9507, P9017, P9059, P9060 
Platelets 
Concentrated, each unit P9019 
Irradiated P9032 
Leukocytes P9031, P9033, P9052, P9055 
Pathogen(s) test P9100 
Pheresis P9034, P9053, P9073 
Irradiated P9036 
Leukocytes reduced P9035, P9055 
Leukocytes reduced, irradiated P9037 
Pathogen-reduced P9073 
Rich plasma, each unit G0465, P9020 
Pressure monitor A4660, A4663, A4670 
Product(s) P901 0-P9040 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) P9099 
Pump, dialysis E1620 
Red blood cells 
Deglycerolized P9039, P9057 
Irradiated P9038 
Leukocytes reduced P9016, P9051, P9054, P9057, 
P9058 
Leukocytes reduced, irradiated P9040, P9056 
Washed P9022 
Strips A4253 
Supply P901 0-P9040, P9050-P9099 
Testing supplies A4770 
Tubing A4750, A4755 
Blood collection devices, accessories A4257, A4652, 
E0620 
Blood pressure G8476-G8478, G9273, G9274 
Cuff A4663 
Documentation M1278, M1279, M1281, M1288, M1294 ® 
Monitor A4670 
Sphygmomanometer A4660 
BLS (basic life support) 
Mileage A0380 
Routine disposable supplies A0382 
Blunt head trauma G9529, G9530, G9531, G9533, G9593, 
G9594, G9595, G9597 
Pediatric patient G9593, G9597 
BMI (body mass index) 
Documented G8417-G8420, G9716, M1276, M1286, 
M1287, M1293, M1296 ® 
Not documented G2181, G8421, M1297, M1314 ® 
Body jacket, scoliosis L 1300, L 1310 
Body sock L0984 
Body worn, hearing aid 
Bilateral V5100 
Monaural, air conduction V5030 
Monaural, bone conduction V5040 
Bond or cement, ostomy skin A4364 
Bone 
Biopsy 
Marrow, powered C1830 
With vertebroplasty C7504, C7505 
Debridement C7500 
Boot 
Benesch L3212-L3214 
Pelvic E0944 
Surgical L3208-L3211, L3260 
Bortezomib J9041, J9046, J9048, J9049 
Bottle 
Bedside drainage A5102 
Cold or hot fluid A9273 
Bowel 
Bladder - Breast 
Injury G9628, G9629, G9630 
Irrigation/evacuation system E0350, E0352 
Brachytherapy C2634-C2699, Q3001 
Needle C1715 
Placement of endorectal intracavitary applicator C9725 
Seed administration (catheter) C1728 
Source 
Cesium-131 chloride C2644 
Nonstranded C2643 
Stranded C2642 
Gold-198 C1716 
lodine-125 
Nonstranded C2639 
High activity C2634 
Stranded C2638 
lridium-192 
High dose rate C1717 
Non-high-dose rate C1719 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) 
Nonstranded C2699 
Stranded C2698 
Palladium-103 
Nonstranded C2640 
High activity C2635 
Linear source C2636 
Planar C2645 
Stranded C2641 
Ytterbium-169 C2637 
Yttrium-90 C2616 
Treatment G0458 
Breast 
Biopsy 
Attempted without diagnosis G8946 
Not performed G8876, G8877 
With 
Cancer diagnosis G8875 
Magnetic resonance guidance C7502 
Stereotactic guidance C7501 
Cancer 
Gene expression profiling panel S3854 
Stage G8881, G9704, G9705 
Mammography 
Digital/digital tomosynthesis (30) 
Results documented G9899, M1302 ® 
Results not documented G9900, M1285 ® 
Milk T2101 
Prosthesis 
Custom postmastectomy L8035 
Garment, external L8015 
Implantable C1789 
Silicone or equal L8600 
Mastectomy bra 
With integrated form, bilateral L8002 
® New index entry 
69 
Breastfeeding - Cardioverter-defibrillator 
With integrated form, unilateral L8001 
Without integrated form L8000 
Mastectomy form L8020 
Mastectomy sleeve L8010 
Nipple prosthesis L8032, L8033 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) L8039 
Silicone or equal L8030 
With integral adhesive L8031 
Prosthesis, adhesive skin support A4280 
Pump 
Accessories A4281-A4286 
Electric, any type E0603 
Heavy duty, hospital grade E0604 
Manual, any type E0602 
Storage bags A4287 @ 
Reconstruction S2066, S2067, S2068 
Tomosynthesis G0279 
Breastfeeding 
Patient G9779 
Supplies A4287@ 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Burosumab-twza injection J0584 
Bus, nonemergency transportation A011 0 
Busulfan J0594, J8510 
Butorphanol tartrate J0595, S0012 
C-1 esterase inhibitor J0596, J0597-J0599
Cabazitaxel J9043
Cabergoline, oral J8515
Cabotegravir J0739, JO? 41
Caffeine citrate J0706
Cage, interbody C 1831
Calaspargase pegol-mknl J9118
Calcitonin salmon J0630
Calcitriol J0636, S0169
Calcium
Disodium edetate J0600 
Breathing aids and supplies A7000-A7048, E0500-E0606, 
Glycerophosphate and calcium lactate J0620 
Leucovorin J0640 
Calculi 
S8096-S821 0 
Breathing circuit A4618 
Brentuximab vedotin J9042 
Brexanolone J1632 
Brexucabtagene autoleucel 02053 
Brief 
Disposable A4520 
Adult 
Above extra-large T4543 
Extra-large T4524 
Large T4523 
Medium T4522 
Small T4521 
Pediatric 
Large T4530 
Small/Medium T4529 
Youth T4533 
Reusable, any size T4539 
Brolucizumab-dbll J0179 
Brompheniramine maleate J0945 
Bronchitis with prior antibiotic prescription G2177 
Bronchodilator 
Not prescribed 
Medical reason G9696 
Reason NOS G9699 
System reason G9698 
Prescribed G9695 
Bronchoscopy C7509-C7512, C7556, C9751 @ 
Budesonide inhalation solution 
Concentrated 
Compounded J7634 
Noncompounded J7633 
Unit dose 
Compounded J7627 
Noncompounded J7626 
Bulb, lightA4633, A4634 
Bulking agent or material L8603-L8607 
Bundled payment care G9187 
Buprenorphine 
Extended-release Q9991-Q9992 
Hydrochloride J0592 
Take-home oral supply G2079 
With naloxone J0571, J0572, J0573, J057 4, J0575 
Bupropion HCI, sustained release S0106 
Burn 
70 
Documentation G8907-G8909 
Garment 
Compression A6501-A6513 
Bladder irrigation solution 02004 
Calibrator solution A4256 
Camcevi J 1952 
Camisole, post-mastectomy S8460 
Canakinumab J0638 
Cane 
Any material, with tip E0100 
Handgrip replacement A4636 
Quad E0105 
Tip replacement A4637 
Cangrelor C9460 
Canister, used with suction pump 
Disposable A7000 
Nondisposable A7001 
Cannula 
Nasal A4615 
Tracheostomy, inner A4623 
Set, fistula A4730 
Cantharidin C9164 ® 
Capecitabine, oral J8520, J8521 
Caplacizumab-yhdp C9047 
Capsaicin patch J7336 
Capsule 
Programmable 
Orally ingested A9268, A9269@ 
Carbidopa/levodopa J7340 
Carbon filter A4680 
Carboplatin J9045 
Cardiac 
Contractility modulation generator C1824, K1030 
Event, recorder, implantable C1764, E0616 
Monitor C1833 
MRI C9762, C9763 
Rehabilitation G0422, G0423, S9472 
Septal defect implant C1817 
Cardiokymography 00035 
Cardiovascular services 
Chemical endarterectomy (chelation) M0300 
Fabric wrapping of abdominal aneurysm M0301 
Prevention G9662-G9665, G9674, G9675, G9676, 
M1256-M1258, M1364 ® 
Cardioverter-defibrillator 
Dual chamber (implantable) C1721 
Lead C 1777, C 1895-C 1896 
Other C1882 
Replacement G0448 
Single chamber (implantable) C1722 
1fj) New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Care improvement initiative G9187 
Care management 
Chronic care services G0506, G0511 
Coordinated specialty care H2040, H2041 <l!lJ 
Home care plan G0086-G0087 
Home visit G0076-G0087 
Ongoing care not possible M1146-M1148 
Psychiatric G0323, G2214 
Services G2021-G2025 
Care plan oversight G2014, G2015 
Caregiver 
Certified in dementia care G2185 
Lack of G2184 
Carepatch 04236 
Carfilzomib J9047 
Carmustine J9050 
Carotid intervention, election G9689 
Case management T1016, T1017 
Casimersen J 1426 
Casirivimab and imdevimab M0240-M0244, 00240-00244 
Caspofungin acetate J0637 
Cast 
Hand restoration L6900-L6915 
Materials, special A4590 
Supplies A4580, 04001-04051 
Body 
Fiberglass 04002 
Plaster 04001 
Fiberglass A4590 
Finger splint, static 04049 
Gauntlet 
Adult, fiberglass 04014 
Adult, plaster 04013 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04016 
Pediatric, plaster 04015 
Hip spica 
Adult, fiberglass 04026 
Adult, plaster 04025 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04028 
Pediatric, plaster 04027 
Long arm 
Adult, fiberglass 04006 
Adult, plaster 04005 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04008 
Pediatric, plaster 04007 
Long arm splint 
Adult, fiberglass 04018 
Adult, plaster 04017 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04020 
Pediatric, plaster 04019 
Long leg 
Adult, fiberglass 04030 
Adult, plaster 04029 
Cylinder 
Adult, fiberglass 04034 
Adult, plaster 04033 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04036 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04032 
Pediatric, plaster 04031 
Pediatric, plaster 04035 
Long leg splint 
Adult, fiberglass 04042 
Adult, plaster 04041 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04044 
Pediatric, plaster 04043 
Miscellaneous 04051 
Plaster A4580 
Short arm 
Care improvement initiative - Catheter 
Adult, fiberglass 04010 
Adult, plaster 04009 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04012 
Pediatric, plaster 04011 
Short arm splint 
Adult, fiberglass 04022 
Adult, plaster 04021 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04024 
Pediatric, plaster 04023 
Short leg 
Adult, fiberglass 04038 
Adult, plaster 04037 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04040 
Pediatric, plaster 04039 
Short leg splint 
Adult, fiberglass 04046 
Adult, plaster 04045 
Pediatric, fiberglass 04048 
Pediatric, plaster 04047 
Shoulder 
Fiberglass 04004 
Plaster 04003 
Special casting material A4590 
Unlisted 04050 
Thermoplastic material 
Ankle foot orthosis L2106 
Knee ankle foot orthosis L2126 
Caster, wheelchair E2395, E2396 
Catheter C1724-C1733, C1750-C1759, C1761, C1885-C1888, 
C1982,C2623,C2627,C2628,C2630 
Access 
External A4300 
Port/reservoir A4301 
Anchoring device 
Percutaneous, adhesive skin attachment A5200 
Peritoneal dialysis A4653 
Urinary, adhesive skin attachment A4333 
Urinary, leg strap A4334 
Balloon C1726, C1727 
Biliary drainage 
Exchange C7545 
Brachytherapy, seed administration C 1728 
Drainage C1729 
Electrophysiology, diagnostic C 1730-C 1733, C2630 
Endovascular ablation C 1888 
External A4326-A4328, A4349, A6590, A6591 ® 
Extravascular tissue ablation C1886 
Female external A4327, A4328 
Guiding C1887 
Hemodialysis/peritoneal C1750, C1752 
Indwelling, Foley-type 
Three-way A4346 
Two-way 
All silicone A4344 
Latex with coating A4338 
Indwelling 
lntraurethral 
Accessories A4342 ® 
Device A4341 ® 
Infusion C1751 
lntracardiac C1759 
lntradiscal C1754 
lntraspinal C1755 
lntravascular ultrasound C1753 
Insertion C9780 
Tray A4354 
Intermittent, urinary, with insertion supplies A4353 
Irrigation supplies A4321, A4322, A4355 
<Ni New index entry 
71 
Catheterization - Ciprofloxacin for intravenous infusion 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Male external A4326, A4349 
Multiple applications C1724-C1759 
Nephrostomy 
Convert to nephroureteral C7547 
Exchange C7548 
Nephroureteral 
Removal and replacement C7546 
Occlusion C2628 
Oropharyngeal suction A4628 
Pacing, transesophageal C1756 
Placement 
Cervical 
Cap A4261 
Halo L081 0-L0830 
Head harness/halter E0942 
Orthosis L0112-L0200 
Traction E0855, E0856 
Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (CTLSO) L0700 
With interface material L0710 
Cetirizine hydrochloride J 1201 
Cetuximab J9055 
Chair 
Coronary artery for angiography C7516-C7529, C7552, 
Adjustable, dialysis E1570 
Bath/shower E0240 
C7553, C7557, C7558 ® 
Pressure-generating C1982 
Rectal A4453 
Specialty type A4340 
Suprapubic/cystoscopic C2627 
Thrombectomy/embolectomy C1757 
Tip, disposable (peritoneal dialysis) A4860 
Tracheal 
Oxygen A4608 
Suction A4605, A4624 
Transluminal C1600 NJ 
Angioplasty 
Laser C1885 
Non-laser C 1725, C2623 
Atherectomy 
Directional C1714 
Rotational C 1724 
lntravascular lithotripsy C1761 
Transtracheal oxygen A4608 
Ureteral C1758 
Vacuum drainage collection unit and tubing kit A7048 
Female, metal cup A4327 
Female, pouch A4328 
Perianal fecal A4330 
Catheterization, specimen collection P9612, P9615 
Cefazolin sodium J0689, J0690 
Cefepime HCI J0692, J0701, J0703 
Cefiderocol J0699 
Cefoperazone sodium S0021 
Cefotaxime sodium J0698 
Cefotetan disodium S0074 
Cefoxitin sodium J0694 
Ceftaroline fosamil J0712 
Ceftazidime J0713 
Ceftazidime and avibactam J0714 
Ceftizoxime sodium J0715 
Ceftolozane and tazobactam J0695 
Ceftriaxone sodium J0696 
Cefuroxime sodium J0697 
Cetera Dual layer or membrane 04259 
CellCept® J7517 
Cellesta ™ Q4184, Q4185, 04214 
Cellular therapy M0075 
Cement, ostomy A4364 
Cemiplimab-rwlc J9119 
Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI) 
model G2001-G2015 
Centrifuge E1500 
Centruroides immune F(ab) J0716 
Cephalin flocculation, blood P2028 
Cephalothin sodium J1890 
Cephapirin sodium J0710 
Cerliponase alfa injection J0567 
Certolizumab pegol J0717 
Cerumen removal G0268 
72 
Lift E0627 
Roll about E 1031 
Sitz bath E0160, E0161, E0162 
Chamber 
Pacemaker, dual C1785 
Pacemaker, single C1786 
Chaplain 
Assessment 09001 
Counseling Q9002, 09003 
Check in by MD/QHP, brief G2012 
Chelation therapy M0300 
Chemical endarterectomy M0300 
Chemistry and toxicology tests P2028-P3001 
C hemodenervation S2340, S2341 
Chemotherapy, see a/so Appendix A: Table of Drugs and 
Biologicals 
Administration (hospital reporting only) Q0083, 00084, Q0085 
Anti-emetic Q0161-Q0181 
Drug, oral, not otherwise classified J8999 
Drugs J9000-J9999, Q5101-O5123 
Office/clinic setting G0498 
Chest 
Drain A7040, A7041, A7048 
Shell (cuirass) E0457 
Wall oscillation system E0483 
Hose, replacement A 7026 
Vest, replacement A7025 
Wrap E0459 
Childbirth classes S9436-S9439, S9442 
Chin cup, cervical L0150 
Chlamydia screen G9820, G9821 
Chlorambucil, oral S0172 
Chloramphenicol sodium succinate J0720 
Chlordiazepoxide HCI J1990 
Chlorhexidine A4248 
Chloromycetin sodium succinate J0720 
Chloroprocaine HCI J2401, J2402 
Chloroquine HCI J0390 
Chlorothiazide sodium J1205 
Chlorpromazine HCI J3230, Q0161 
Cholangiopancreatography C7541-C7544, C7560, S8037 ilil 
Choline c-11 A9515 
Chorionic gonadotropin J0725 
Choroid lesion destruction G0186 
Christian Science practitioner services S9900, S9901 
Chromic phosphate P32 suspension A9564 
Chromium CR-51 sodium chromate A9553 
Chronic care management services (CCM) G0506, G0511 
Cidofovir J07 40 
Cilastatin sodium, imipenem J0743 
Ciltacabtagene Autoleucel 02056 
Cimetidine hydrochloride S0023 
Cinacalcet, oral J0604 
Ciprofloxacin for intravenous infusion J0744 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Ciprofloxacin otic suspension J7342 
Cisplatin J9060 
Cladribine J9065 
Clamp 
Dialysis A4918 
Ostomy A4363 
Urethral, external A4356, A4360 
Venous A4918 
Clarix™ 04148, 04156 
Classes 
Asthma education S9441 
Childbirth S9436-S9439, S9442 
Diabetic management S9455, S9460, S9465 
Education NOC S9445, S9446 
Exercise S9451 
Lactation S9443 
Nutrition S9452, S9470 
Parenting S9444 
Safety, infant S9447 
Smoking cessation S9453 
Stress management S9454 
Weight management S9449 
Cleanser 
Appliance A5131 
Dialysis equipment A467 4 
Wound A6260 
Clinic visit 
All-inclusive T1015 
Hospital outpatient G0463 
Clinical Decision Support Mechanism (CDSM) 
G1001-G1004, G1007-G1024 
Clinical trial services S9988, S9990, S9991, S9992, S9994, 
S9996 
Clofarabine J9027 
Clonidine J0735 
Closure device, vascular C1760 
Clotting 
Factors J7177-J7212 
Time tube A4771 
Clozapine S0136 
Clubfoot wedge L3380 
Cocaine HCI nasal solution C9046, C9143 
Cochlear prosthetic implant L8614 
Batteries L8621, L8622, L8623, L8624 
Headset L8615 
Recharging system for batteries L8625 
Replacement L8619, L8627, L8628, L8629 
Transmitting coil/cable L8617, L8618 
Cocoon membrane 04264 
Codeine phosphate J0745 
Cogenex 
Amniotic membrane 04229 
Flowable amnion 04230 
Coil, imaging, insertable, MRI C1770 
Cold pad, fluid circulating E0218 
Colistimethate sodium J0770, S0142 
Collagen 
Filler A6010, A6011, A6024, C9359, C9362 
Nerve cuff/wrap C9355, C9361 
Skin test 03031 
Tube C9352, C9353 
Urinary tract implant L8603 
Wound dressing A2006-A2013, A6021-A6024 
Collagenase, Clostridium histolyticum J0775 
Collar, cervical 
Multiple post L0180-L0200 
Nonadjustable (foam) L0120 
Ciprofloxacin otic suspension - Compression 
Coll-e-derm ™ Q4193 
Colonoscopy 
Advanced age G9659, G9660, G9661 
Consultation S0285 
Documentation G9998, G9999 
Flexible sigmoidoscopy G0104 
Screening 
Age 45 to 85 years G2204 
Barium enema G0120 
Fecal occult blood test G0328 
Individual at high risk G0105 
Not meeting criteria for high risk G0121 
Colpopexy, vaginal C9778 
Coly-Mycin M® J0770 
Coma stimulation S9056 
Commode E0163-E0175 
Chair, mobile or stationary E0163-E0165 
With lift mechanism E0170-E0171 
Lift E0172, E0625 
Pail E0167 
Seat, wheelchair E0968 
Communication 
Board E1902 
Device, augmentative, repair V5336 
Patient unable G2183 
Services, RHC/FQHC G0071 
Community 
Health integration services G0019, G0022 !fl1 
Service plan M1317-M1320 INI 
Support services H2015, H2016, H2021, H2022 
Comorbid condition G2175 
Compensator-based beam modulation treatment G6016 
Competing diagnosis G2097 
Complete blood count (CBC) G0306, G0307 
Composite dressing A6203, A6204, A6205 
Compounded drug, not otherwise classified J7999 
Comprehensive mgt and care coordination, advanced 
illness S0311 
Compressed gas system E0424-E0480 
Compression 
Arm sleeve A6576-A6578 't:11 
Arm sleeve and glove combination A6574, A6575 ® 
Bandaging A6448-A6452 
Padding S8430 
Roll A6597-A6599 @ 
Supply A6594-A6596, A6600-A6609 ® 
Controller E0680, E0681 1f:l1 
Device, limb A4600, E0676 
Garment 
Accessories, Not otherwise specified A6593 IN\ 
Arm A6522, A6523 ® 
Bra A6528, A6529 ® 
Burn A6501-A6513 
Full leg and foot A6526, A6527 ® 
Genital region A6570, A6571 lfl1 
Glove A6520, A6521 ® 
Lower leg and foot A6524, A6525 ® 
Neck/head A6566, A6567 ®l 
Non-pneumatic, sequential E0677-E0679, E0682 ® 
Not otherwise specified A6549 
Toe caps A6572, A6573 18)
Torso and shoulder A6568, A6569 ® 
Gauntlet A6565, A6582 '81 
Glove A6579-A6581 ® 
Sleeve A6549 
Stocking A6549 
Below knee 
18-30 mmHg A6610, A6530 ®
® New index entry 
73 
Compressor - Cough stimulating device 
30-40 mm Hg A6552, A6553@ 
Used as surgical dressing A6531 
40+ mmHg A6554, A6555 ® 
Used as surgical dressing A6532 
Full length/chap style 
18-30 mmHg A6536, A6559 ®
30-40 mmHg A6537, A6560 (8 
40+ mmHg A6538, A6561 ® 
Garter belt A6544 
Thigh length 
18-30 mmHg A6533, A6556 ®
30-40 mmHg A6534, A6557 ® 
40+ mmHg A6535, A6558 ® 
Waist length 
18-30 mmHg A6539, A6562 ® 
30-40 mmHg A6540, A6563 1tl)
40+ mmHg A6541, A6564 lfl1 
Wrap 
Non-elastic 
Below knee, 30-50 mmHg 
Used as surgical dressing A6545 
With adjustable straps 
Accessories, not otherwise specified A6593 ® 
Below knee 
Surgical dressing 
Compressor 
Aerosol E0572 
30-50 mmHg A6583 ® 
Air powered E0565 
Nebulizer E0570 
Pneumatic E0650, E0651, E0652 
High pressure E0675 
Non-segmental E0655, E0660-E0666 
Segmental E0656, E0657, E0667-E0673 
Computer Aided Detection, including breast MRI C8937 
Conduction 
Glasses, air V5070 
Hearing aid V5030 
Conductivity meter, bath, dialysis E1550 
Conformer, ocular, fabrication and fitting V2628 
Conformity, evaluation V5020 
Congo red, blood P2029 
Conivaptan hydrochloride C9488 
Connective tissue C1762-C1763 
Consultation, inpatient, follow-up 
15 minutes G0406 
25 minutes G0407 
35 minutes G0408 
Contact layer (dressing) A6206, A6207, A6208 
Contact lens supplies and services S0512, S0514, S0592, 
V2500-V2599 
Disposable S0500 
Gas permeable 
Bifocal, per lens V2512 
Extended wear, per lens V2513 
Spherical, per lens V251 0 
Torie, prism ballast, per lens V2511 
fiydrophilic 
Bifocal, per lens V2522 
Dual focus, per lens V2525 
Extended wear, per lens V2523 
Spherical, per lens V2520 
Torie, or prism ballast, per lens V2521 
With blue-violet filter, per lens V2526 ® 
PMMA 
Bifocal V2502 
Color vision deficiency V2503 
Spherical V2500 
Torie or prism ballast V2501 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Scleral 
Gas impermeable, per lens V2530 
Gas permeable, per lens V2531 
Liquid bandage device S0515 
Continent device A5081, A5082, A5083 
Continuous 
Glucose monitoring system 
Receiver A9278 
Sensor A9276 
Supply allowance A4238, A4239 
Transmitter A9277 
Passive motion exercise device E0936 
Positive airway pressure (CPAP) device E0601 
Contraceptive 
Cervical cap A4261 
Condoms A4267, A4268 
Diaphragm A4266 
lntratubal occlusion device A4264 
Intrauterine device, copper J7300 
Intrauterine device, Progestasert® IUD S4989 
Intrauterine, levonorgestrel-releasing J7296, J7297, J7298, 
J7301 
Levonorgestrel, implants and supplies J7297, J7298, J7301 
J7306,S4981 
Patch J7304 
Pills S4993 
Supplies A4261, A4264, A4266-A4269 
Systems J7294-J7307 
Spermicide A4269 
Contracts, maintenance, ESRD A4890 
Contrast agents Q9950-Q9983 
Contrast media, see a/so Radlopharmaceutlcals 
High and low osmolar Q9959-Q9967 
High osmolar 
150-199 mg/ml Q9959
200-249 mg/ml Q9960 
250-299 mg/ml Q9961 
300-349 mg/ml Q9962 
350-399 mg/ml Q9963 
400 or greater mg/ml Q9964 
Up to 149 mg/ml Q9958 
Injection for 
Echocardiography A9700 
Iron-based magnetic resonance Q9953, 09954 
MRI A9576, A9577, A9578, A9579 
Low osmolar 
100-199 mg/ml 09965
200-299 mg/ml 09966
300-399 mg/ml 09967
400 or greater mg/ml 09951 
Coordinated care G9001-G9012, H2040, H2041 lf.i1 
Copanlisib J9057 
Copper, diagnostic A9592 
Cord blood 
Harvesting S2140 
CoreCyte ™ 04240 
Coretext™ or protext 04246 
Corneal tissue processing V2785 
Coronary artery bypass surgery, minimally invasive 
S2205,S2206,S2207,S2208,S2209 
Corplex® 04231, 04232 
Corset, spinal orthosis L0970-L0976 
Corticorelin ovine triflutate J0795 
Corticosteroids G9468, G9470 
Corvert® (ibutilide fumarate) J1742 
Cosyntropin J0834 
Cough stimulating device A7020, E0482 
74 
N New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Counseling 
By chaplain Q9002, Q9003 
Hospice evaluation G0337 
Immunization G0310-G0315 
Not provided G2202 
Screening and prevention G0438-G0451 
Cover, wound 
Alginate dressing A6196, A6197, A6198 
Foam dressing A6209-A6214 
Hydrocolloid dressing A6234-A6239 
Hydrogel dressing A6242-A6248 
Noncontact, warming, and accessory A6000, E0231, E0232 
Specialty absorptive dressing A6251-A6256 
Synthetic resorbable dressing A6460-A6461 
COVID-19 
Convalescent plasma C9507 
Detection U0001-U0002 
Infusion therapy M0249, M0250, Q0240-Q0249 
Test K1034 
Vaccine M0201 
CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure), see a/so 
Positive airway pressure device 
Device E0601 
Headgear A7035 
Humidifier A7046 
Cradle, bed E0280 
Cranial 
Electrotherapy stimulation (CES) system A4596, 
E0732 ® 
Remolding orthosis S1040 
Crib E0300 
Crisis intervention H2011, S9484, S9485, T2034 
Crizanlizumab-tmca J0791 
Cromolyn sodium, inhalation solution 
Compounded J7632 
Noncompounded J7631 
Crotalidae 
Immune f(ab')2 (equine) J0841 
Polyvalent immune fab J0840 
Cryo-cord™ Q4237 
Crutch 
Accessories A4635, A4636, A4637 
Forearm 
Each E0111 
Pair E0110 
Pad, replacement A4635 
Substitute E0118 
Underarm 
Articulating E0117 
Other than wood 
Each E0116 
Pair E0114 
Wood 
Each E0113 
Pair E0112 
Cryoprecipitate, each unit P9012 
CTLSO L0700, L0710, L 1000-L 1120 
Cuirass E0457 
Culture sensitivity study, urine P7001 
Cushion, wheelchair E2601-E2625, E2629 
Customized 
DME, other than wheelchair K0900 
Item, in addition to basic item S 1002 
Cyanocobalamin cobalt Co57 A9559 
Cycler dialysis machine E1594 
Cyclophosphamide J9070, J9071 
Oral J8530 
Cyclosporine J7502, J7515, J7516 
Counseling - Depo-estradiol cypionate 
Cygnus matrix Q4199 
Cystoscopy C9738 
lntraoperative G9606, G9607, G9608 
Cystou reth roscopy 
With biopsy(ies) C7550 
With blue light cystoscopy C7554 
With insertion of transprostatic implant C9769 
1 to 3 implants C9739 
4 or more implants C9740 
With ureteroscopy and/or pyeloscopy S2070 
With lithotripsy and vacuum aspiration C9761 
Cytarabine J9100 
Liposome J9098 
Cytomegalovirus immune globulin (human) J0850 
Dacarbazine J9130 
Daclizumab J7513 
Dactinomycin J9120 
Dalalone J 1100 
Dalbavancin J0875 
Dalteparin sodium J1645 
Daptomycin J0877, J0878 
Daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj J9144 
Daratumumab J9145 
Darbepoetin alfa 
ESRD on dialysis J0882 
Non-ERSD use J0881 
Daunorubicin J9150 
Citrate J9151 
Cytarabine J9153 
DaunoXome® (daunorubicin citrate) J9151 
Daxibotulinumtoxina-lanm C9160@ 
Day care services S5100, S5101, S5102, S5105 
Debridement 
Bone C7500 
Decitabine J0893, J0894 
Decline assessment G0036 
Decompression procedure, intervertebral disc S2348 
Decubitus care equipment E0181-E0199 
Deferoxamine mesylate J0895 
Defibrillator, external E0617, K0606 
Battery K0607 
Cardioverter-defibrillator C1721, C1722 
Electrode K0609 
Garment K0608 
Degarelix J9155 
Deionizer, water purification system E1615 
Delafloxacin injection C9462 
Delivery 
High risk area S9381 
Home, supplies S8415 
Set-up, dispensing A9901 
Deluxe item S1001 
Dementia documented M1164, M1271 ® 
Demonstration project 
ESRD G9013, G9014 
Frontier extended stay clinic G9140 
MAPCP G9151, G9152, G9153 
Oncology G9050-G9139 
Denosumab J0897 
Dental rehabilitation 
Requiring facility use G0330 
Deodorant, ostomy A4394, A4395 
Deoxycholic acid J0591 
Depo-estradiol cypionate J 1000 
18) New index entry 
75 
Derm-maxx - Dialysis 
Derm-maxx Q4238 
Derma-gide ™ Q4203 
Dermacell Q4122 
Dermacyte amniotic membrane allograft Q4248 
Dermagratt® Q4106 
Dermatologic evaluation, asynchronous 
CMMI Model G9868, G9869, G9870 
Desmopressin acetate J2597 
Detector, blood leak, dialysis E1560 
Development testing G0451 
Device 
Closure, vascular C1760 
Cochlear with headset L8614, L8615 
Implantable NOC C1889 
lnterspinous distraction C1821 
Joint C1776 
Lower limb K1007 
Ocular C1784 
OralE0485, E0486, K1027 
Other cochlear accessories L8616-L8629 
Repair, urinary C2631 
Retrieval C1603, C1773 R1 
Ventricular assist Q04 77-Q0509 
Dexamethasone 
Acetate J 1094 
Inhalation solution 
Concentrated J7637 
Unit dose J7638 
lntraocular injection J1095 
lntravitreal implant J7312 
Ophthalmic insert J1096 
Oral J8540 
Sodium phosphate J 1100 
Dexrazoxane hydrochloride J1190 
Dextran J7100, J7110 
Dextroamphetamine sulfate S0160 
Dextrose S5010, S5012, S5013, S5014 
5% LR J7121 
Saline (normal) J7042 
Water J7060, J7070 
Dextrostix® or similar product A4772 
Diabetes see a/so Insulin 
Home management of gestational diabetes S9214 
Management program G0245, G0246, S9140, S9141, 
S9455,S9460, S9465,S9470 
Self- management training 
Group G0109 
Individual G0108 
Diabetic supplies 
Batteries 
Glucose monitoring A4233-A4236 
Footwear 
Fitting A5500, A5501, A5507 
Insert, multiple density A5510-A5514 
Modification A5503-A5506, A5507 
Shoe, off- the-shelf A5508 
Insulin 
Delivery devices and systems A9274, S5550-S5571 
Supplies A4224-A4232 
LancetA4258,A4259 
Monitor 
Batteries A4233-A4236 
Home E0607 
Supplies A4238, A4239, A4253-A4256, A9275-A9278 
Pump 
Insulin A4224-A4232 
Reagent strips A4253 
Diagnostic and therapeutic services G0127-G0372 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Diagnostic 
Test reader, molecular K 1035 @ 
Dialysate 
Concentrate additives A4765 
Solution A4728 
Testing solution A4760 
Dialysis 
Access system, implantable C1881 
Accessories and Systems E 1500-E 1699 
Alarm, pressure E1540 
Anchor, catheter A4653 
Anesthetic 
Injectable A4737 
Topical A4736 
Air bubble detector E 1530 
Barrier, fluid E1575 
Bath conductivity, meter E 1550 
Blood pressure 
Cuff A4663 
Monitor A4670 
Sphygmomanometer A4660 
Cannulation set, fistula A4730 
Circuit 
Access C7513- C7515, C7530 
Angiography C7513-C7515, C7530 
Clamp, pressure, venous A4918 
Control system, unipuncture E1580 
Cycler set, disposable A4671 
Dialyzer A4690 
Documentation M1259- M1265, M1269, M1273@ 
Drain 
Bag/Bottle A4911 
Emergency/unscheduled G0257 
Extension line A4672, A4673 
Filter, activated carbon A4680 
Gloves A4927, A4930 
Machines and accessories E1500-E1699 
Maintenance 
Electrical A4870 
Plumbing A4870 
Repairs A4890 
Maintenance G8956 
Mask, surgical A4928 
Microcapillary 
Tube A4651 
Sealant A4652 
Miscellaneous supplies A4913 
PowderA4707,A4765 
Protamine sulfate A4802 
Short- term C1752 
ShuntA4740 
Solutions A4674, A4706, A4708, A4709, A4720-A4728, 
A4760,A4766,A4674 
Status G0052 
Syringe A4657 
Systems and Accessories E 1500-E 1699 
Test strips 
Ammonia A477 4 
Blood 
Glucose A4772 
Occult A4 773 
Thermometer 
Oral A4931 
Rectal A4932 
Tip, catheter, disposable A4860 
Tourniquet A4929 
Tube/Tubing 
Blood A4750, A4755 
76 
1@ New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Serum clotting time A4771 
Vacuum blood collection A4770 
"Y set" A4719 
Water, treated A4714 
Diaper T4521-T4540, T4543, T4544 
Disposable A4520 
Adult 
Above extra- large T4543 
Extra- large T 4524 
Large T4523 
Medium T4522 
Small T4521 
Pediatric 
Large T4530 
Small/Medium T 4529 
Youth T4533 
Penile wrap, disposable T4545 
Reusable, any size T4539 
Diathermy K1004, K1036 (!j1
Diazepam J3360 
Diazoxide J1730 
Diclofenac sodium injection J1130 
Dicyclomine HCI J0500 
Didanosine (DDI) S0137 
Diethylstilbestrol diphosphate J9165 
Difelikefalin (for ESRD) J0879 
Digital behavioral therapy A9291 
Digoxin J1160 
Immune fab (ovine) J1162 
Dihydroergotamine mesylate J1110 
Dimenhydrinate J1240 
Dimercaprol J0470 
Dimethyl sulfoxlde (DMSO) J1212 
Diphenhydramine HCI J1200, Q0163 
Dipyridamole J1245 
Direct admission/refer for hospital observation care G0379 
Directional, transluminal, atherectomy C1714 
Disarticulation 
Lower extremities, prosthesis L5000-L5999 
Upper extremities, prosthesis L6000-L6692 
Disease management program S0315, S0316, S0317 
Telephone calls by RN S0320 
Diskectomy, anterior S2350, S2351 
Dispensing fee 
Bilateral V5110 
Binaural V5160 
Contralateral, monaural V5200 
Contralateral routing system, binaural V5240 
Monaural hearing aid, any type V5241 
Pharmacy 
Anti- cancer, antiemetics Q0510, Q0511, Q0512 
Compounding S9430 
HIV prophylaxis Q0516-Q0518 ® 
lmmunosuppressives Q0510 
Inhalation drug(s) G0333, Q0513, Q0514 
Unspecified hearing aid V5090 
Disposable supplies, ambulance A0382, A0384, 
A0392-A0398 
Dissection 
Endoscopic submucosal C9779 
DME see Durable medical equipment 
DMSO J1212 
DNA analysis, multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 S3840 
Dobutamine HCI J1250 
Docetaxel J9171 
Dolasetron mesylate J1260, S0174 
Dome and mouthpiece (for nebulizer) A7016 
Donor 
Lobectomy, living donor S2061 
Solid organs, global definition S2152 
Door to puncture time G9580, G9582 
Diaper - Dressing 
Dopamine HCI J1265 
Doripenem J1267 
Dornase alpha, inhalation solution, unit dose form J7639 
Dosimeter, radiation implantable A4650 
Dostarlimab-gxly J9272 
Doula services T1032, T1033 
Doxercalciferol J1270 
Doxorubicin HCI J9000, Q2049, Q2050 
Drainage 
Bag A4911 
Bedside A4357 
Urinary, latexA5112 
Urinary, vinyl A4358 
With or without tube A4357-A4358 
Board, postural E0606 
Bottle, bedside A5102 
Catheter C1729 
Dressing, see a/so Bandages 
Alginate A6196-A6199 
Absorptive A6251-A6256, K07 44-K07 46 
Bandages 
Adhesive A6413 
Compression 
Light A6448-A6450 
Medium A6451 
HighA6452 
Conforming A6442-A6447 
Padding A6441 
Self- adherent A6453-A6455 
With zinc paste A6456 
Burn 
Garment 
Compression A6501-A6513 
Collagen A2006-A2013, A6021-A6024 
Filler A6010, A6011, A6024 
Composite A6203-A6205 
Contact layer A6206-A6208 
Cover 
Foam dressing A6209-A6214 
Hydrocolloid dressing A6234-A6239 
Hydrogel dressing A6242-A6247 
Specialty absorptive dressing A6251-A6256 
Warming A6000 
Device E0231, E0232 
Filler 
Alginate A6199 
Collagen based A6010, A6011, A6024 
FoamA6215 
Hydrocolloid dressing A6240, A6241 
Hydrogel dressing A6248 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) 
Ge1A6261 
Powder A6262 
Film transparent A6257, A6258, A6259 
Foam A6209-A6215 
Gauze A6216-A6233, A6266-A6404 
Gel 
Alginate A6196-A6199 
Hydrogel dressing, filler A6248 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) A6261 
SheetA6025 
Holder A4461, A4463, A4465 
Hydrocolloid dressing A6234-A6241 
Hydrogel A6242-A6248 
Packing strips A6407 
Pad, eye A6410, A6411 
Patch, eye A6412 
Pouch A6154 
Resorbable A6460-A6461 
Sealant, skin A6250 
@ New index entry 
77 
•
Dronabinol - Emergency 
Specialty absorptive A6251-A6256 
Tubular A6457 
Dronabinol Q0167 
Droperidol J1790 
With fentanyl citrate J 1810 
Dropper A4649 
Drug(s), see a/so Appendix A: Table of Drugs and 
Biologicals 
Abuse injectable G9518 
Administered 
By injection J0120-J9999 z1 
Through metered dose inhaler J3535 
Biologic or immune response G2182 
Cancer treatment Q5112-Q5132 ® 
Chemotherapy J8501-J8999, J9000-J9999, 05101-05123 ® 
Antiemetic 00161-00181 
Compounded, not otherwise classified (NOC) J7999 
Controlled dose inhalation drug delivery system K0730 
Delivery system 
5 ml or less per hour A4306 
50 ml or greater per hour A4305 
lmmunosuppressive J7500-J7599 
Infusion supplies A4221, A4222, A4224, A4225, A4226, 
A4230,A4231,A4232 
Inhalation solutions J7604-J7686 
Miscellaneous drugs, biologicals, and supplies 
C8957-C9248, C9254 -C9293, C9460-C9488, 
J7308-J7402, 00115-00249, 00515, 02009-02028, 
02041-02050, 02053-02055, 03027, 03028, 
04074-04082, 05101-05126, 09991, 09992 
Non-biodegradable delivery implants 
Insertion G0516 
Removal G0517 
Removal and reinsertion G0518 
Non-Medicare S0012-S0197 
Nonprescription A9150 
Not otherwise classified (NOC) J3490, J7699-J8499, 04082 
Prescription S5000, S5001 
Radiopharmaceuticals/contrast agents A9500-A9800 @1 
Services H004 7-H0050 
Take home Naloxone G2215, G2216 
Testing, definitive 
1-7 classes G0480 
8-14 classes G0481
15-21 classes G0482
22 or more classes G0483 
Perf w/o rec standards, any number of classes G0659
Therapy 
Adjuvant treatment Chemotherapy and HER-2 targeted 
In pregnancy G2205 
Not received G2207, G2208 
Received G2206 
Biologic or immune response G2182 
Initiation in ED G2213 
Treatment services H0001-H2037 
Unclassified C9399 
Dry pressure pad/mattress E0184, E0199 
Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) (DEXA) G9471 
Durable medical equipment (DME) A9900-A9999, 
E0100-E8002,K0001-K1027,K0669-K0746 
Customized K0900 
Determination G0454 
Miscellaneous E 1399 
Repair, nonroutine, by technician 
Non oxygen K0739 
Oxygen K0740 
Duraclon® (clonidine) J0735 
Durolane® J7318 
Durvalumab J9173 
Dyphylline J1180 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Ear mold/impression V5264, V5265, V5275 
Early periodic screening diagnosis and treatment (EPSDT) 
S0302 
Ecallantide J 1290 
Echocardiography 
Image post processing C9786 ® 
Injectable contrast material A9700 
Transesophageal/Transthoracic C8921-C8930 
Echosclerotherapy S2202 
Eculizumab J1300 
Edaravone J 1301 
Edetate 
Calcium disodium J0600 
Disodium J3520 
Educational services, face-to-face G0420, G0421 
Efgartigimod Alfa-Fcab J9332 
Eggcrate dry pressure pad/mattress E0184, E0199 
Elbow 
Disarticulation, endoskeletal L6450 
Orthosis (EO) E1800, L3702-L3740, L3760, L3761, L3762 
Protector E0191 
Elbow-wrist-hand-finger orthosis L3763, L3764, L3765, 
L3766 
Electrical stimulation 
Auricular acupuncture points S8930 
Device for cancer treatment E0766 
Pelvic floor E07 40 
Supplies A4595, A4596 
Treatment G0281, G0282, G0283 
Electrical work, dialysis equipment A4870 
Electrocardiogram (ECG), routine G0403, G0404, G0405 
Electrode 
Pair A4556 
Transducer A4555 
Electromagnetic stimulation E0761, E0769, G0295, G0329 
Electromyography E0746 
Electron beam CT (ultrafast CT) S8092 
Electronic medication compliance management device 
T1505 
Electrophysiology 
3D or vector mapping C1730, C1731 
Diagnostic, other than 3D mapping C1730, C1731 
Diagnostic/ablation with 3D mapping C1732 
Other than 3D or vector mapping and cool-tip C1733 
Elevating leg rest 
Lower extension tube, replacement, each K0046 
Pair K0195 
Upper hanger bracket, replacement, each K0047 
Elliotts B solution J9175 
Elosulfase alfa J1322 
Elotuzumab injection J9176 
Elranatamab-bcmm C9165@ 
Emapalumab-lzsg J9210 
Embolectomy catheter C1757 
Embolization protective system C1884 
Emergency 
Dialysis G0257 
Response system S5160, S5161, S5162 
Services G0035, G0378-G0390 
STAT laboratory charge S3600, S3601 
Visits G0035, G9521, G9522 
Level 1 G0380 
Level 2 G0381 
Level 3 G0382 
Level 4 G0383 
Level 5 G0384 
78 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Emergent cases M1142 
EMG (electromyography) E0746, S3900 
Emicizumab-kxwh J7170 
Eminase® J0350 
Employment 
Supported H2023-H2026 
Encephalitis 
Due to 
Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis vaccine M1162 
Enema Supplies A4453, A4457-A4459 iw 
Endarterectomy, chemical M0300 
Endoscope 
Retrograde imaging colonoscope device C17 49 
Sheath (disposable), each A4270 
Single use (disposable) C1601, C1747, C1748 ® 
Endoscopy 
Nasal/Sinus S2342 
Endoskeletal system, addition L5615, L5848, L5856, L5857, 
L5925, L5926, L5969 l,tj 
Enfortumab vedotin-ejfv J9177 
Enfuvirtide J 1324 
Enoxaparin sodium J1650 
Enteral 
Additives and formulas B41 00-B4162 
Feeding 
Supply kit 
Elastomeric fed B4148 <NJ 
Gravity fed B4036 
Pump fed B4035 
Syringe fed B4034 
Tubing 
Gastrostomy/jejunostomy B4087, B4088 
Nasogastric B4081, B4082 
Stomach B4083 
Formula 
Slenderized natural foods with intact nutrients B4149 
Complete with intact nutrients B4150 
Complete, calorically dense B4152 
Digestive enzyme(s) B4105 
Fluid and electrolyte replacement B4102 
Hydrolyzed proteins B4153 
Incomplete/modular nutrients B4155 
Pediatrics 
Complete calorically dense B4160 
Complete soy-based, intact nutrients B4159 
Complete with intact nutrients B4158 
Fluid and electrolyte replacement B4103 
Hydrolyzed/amino acids B4161 
Special metabolic needs for inherited disease of 
metabolism B4162 
Special metabolic needs B4154 
Special metabolic needs for inherited disease of 
metabolism B4157 
Nutrition infusion pump B9002 
Supplies, not otherwise classified B9998 
Thickener, food B4100 
Tubing 
Gastrostomy/jejunostomy B4087, B4088 
Nasogastric B4081, B4082 
Stomach B4083 
Enterostomal therapy S9474 
Enuresis alarm S8270 
Envarsus XR® J7503 
Enverse 04258 
Eosinophil count S3630 
EpiCord® 04187 
EpiFix® 04186 
Epinephrine J0171, J0173 
Epirubicin HCI J9178 
Episode of care 
Emergent cases - External 
Discharge/discontinuation of care M1009-M1014 
Documented M1106, M1107, M1111, M1112, M1116, 
M1117, M1121, M1122, M1126, M1127, M1131, M1135 
Episode initiated for rehab therapy, medical or chiropractic 
M1143 
Ongoing care not indicated M1108, M1109, M1110, M1113, 
M1114, M1115, M1118, M1119, M1120, M1123, M1124, 
M1125, M1128, M1129, M1130, M1132, M1133, M1134 
Epoetin alpha 
ESRD on dialysis 100 units 04081, Q51 05 
Non-ERSD use J0885, Q5106 
Epoetin beta J0887, J0888 
Epoprostenol J 1325 
Eptifibatide J1327 
Eptinezumab-jjmr J3032 
Equestrian/hippotherapy S8940 
Eravacycline J0122 
Ergonovine maleate J1330 
Eribulin mesylate J9179 
Ertapenem sodium J 1335 
Erythromycin lactobionate J1364 
Esketamine 
Outpatient visit G2082, G2083 
Nasal spray S0013 
Esophagomyotomy, laparoscopic S2079 
ESRD (end-stage renal disease), see Dialysis 
Estradiol valerate J1380 
Estrogen conjugated J1410 
Estrone (5, aqueous) J1435 
Etanercept J1438 
Etelcalcetide injection J0606 
Eteplirsen injection J1428 
Ethanolamine oleate J1430 
Etidronate disodium J1436 
Etonogestrel implant system J7307 
Etoposide J9181 
Etoposide, oral J8560 
Euflexxa J7323 
Evacuation System 
Bowel 
Control unit, E0350 
Disposable supplies for, E0352 
Manual pump enema, A4459 
Tubing, A4457 ® 
Evaluation 
Comprehensive, multidisciplinary H2000 
Handicapped child T1024 
Evaluation and assessment M1006-M1014, T1024 
Evaluation and management G2082, G2083 
Complex visit G2211 
Prolonged G2212 
Everolimus J7527 
Evinacumab-dgnb J1305 
Examination 
Audiometry S0618 
Gynecological S0610, S0612, S0613 
Ophthalmologic S0620, S0621 
Physical for college S0622 
Post-coital 00115 
Excision 
Neuroma C7551 
Exemestane S0156 
Exercise equipment A9300 
External 
Ambulatory infusion pump E0781, E0784, E0787 
Ambulatory insulin delivery system A9274 
Counterpulsation treatment G0166 
® New index entry 
79 
Extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy - Foot 
Drug infusion pump, non-insulin K0552 
Power, battery components L7360-L7368 
Power, elbow L7170-L7191 
Urinary supplies A4326-A4328, A4349, A4356, A4357, 
A4358, A5105, A6590, A6591 ® 
Extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy S9034 
Global fee S0400 
Extremity belt/harness E0945 
Eye 
Case V2756 
Exam, routine M1220, M1221, S0620, S0621@ 
Lens, contact or spectacle V2100-V2615 
Miscellaneous items and services V2700-V2799 
Other miscellaneous item or service V2799 
Pad A6410, A6411 
Patch, occlusive A6412 
Prosthetic 
Custom V2623 
Other type V2629 
Surgery S0800, S0810, S0812 
Face tent, oxygen A4619 
Faceplate, ostomy A4361, A4384 
Facility services 
For dental rehabilitation with monitored anesthesia G0330 
Factor VIIA coagulation factor, recombinant J7189, J7212 
Factor VIII, anti-hemophilic factor J7182, J7185, J7188, 
J7190,J7191, J7192,J7204, J7205, J7207,J7208, J7209, 
J7210, J7211 
Factor XA (recombinant), inactivated-zhzo J7169 
Factor IX J7193-J7195, J7200-J7203 
Factor X J7175 
Factor XIII, A-subunit J7181 
Factor XIII, anti-hemophilic factor J7180 
Fall G8907, G8910-G8911, M1069, M1070 
Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki J9358 
Family 
Planning education H1010 
Stabilization services S9482 
Famotidine S0028 
Faricimab-Svoa J2777 
Fecal microbiota preparation G0455 
Federally qualified health center services (FQHC) G0466, 
G0467,G0468,G0469,G0470 
Feeding see Enteral and/or Parenteral 
Fentanyl citrate and droperidol J1810 
Fentanyl citrate J3010 
Fern test Q0114 
Ferric 
Carboxymaltose J 1439 
Derisomaltose J 1437 
Pyrophosphate citrate 
Powder J1444 
Solution J1443 
Fertility services S4005-S4989 
Ferumoxytol Q0138, Q0139 
Fetoscopic laser therapy S2411 
Filgrastim J1442, Q5125 
Filgrastim-aafi Q511 0 
Filgrastim-sndz Q5101 
Filler 
Collagen meniscus implant G0428 
Dermal, injection G0429 
Wound 
Alginate dressing A6199 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Collagen based A6010, A6011, A6024 
Foam dressing A6215 
Hydrocolloid dressing A6240, A6241 
Hydrogel dressing A6248 
Not elsewhere classified (NEC) A6261, A6262 
Film, transparent (for dressing) A6257, A6258, A6259 
Filter 
Aerosol compressor A7014 
Dialysis carbon A4680 
Ostomy A4368 
Placement G9539, G9540, G9541, G9542, G9543, G9544 
Tracheostoma A4481 
Ultrasonic generator A7014 
Vena cava C1880 
Financial management T2050 
Finasteride SO 138 
Fistula 
Cannulation set A4730 
Fitting 
Prosthesis 
Lower limb 
Early L5400-L5460 
Post surgical L5400-L5460 
Upper limb 
Early L6380-L6388 
Post surgical L6380-L6388 
Flebogamma J1572 
Florbetaben Q9983 
Florbetapir F18 A9586 
Floweramnioflo Q4177 
Floweramniopatch Q4178 
Flowerderm TM Q4179 
Flowmeter E0440, E0555, E0580 
Floxuridine J9200 
Fluciclovine F-18 A9588 
Fluconazole, injection J1450 
Fludarabine phosphate J8562, J9185 
Fluid barrier, dialysis E1575 
Fluid flow/Fluid GF Q4206 
Flunisolide inhalation solution J7641 
Fluocinolone acetonide J7311, J7313, J7314 
Fluorodeoxyglucose F-18 FOG A9552 
Fluoroestradiol F 18 A9591 
Fluorouracil J9190 
Fluphenazine decanoate J2680 
Flutamide, oral S0175 
Flutemetamol Q9982 
Flutter device S8185 
Foam 
Dressing A6209-A6215 
Pad adhesive A5126 
Folding walker E0135, E0143 
Foley catheter A4312-A4316, A4338-A4346 
Follitropin 
Alfa S0126 
Beta S0128 
Follow-up interval G9862 
Fomepizole J1451 
Fomivirsen sodium intraocular J1452 
Fondaparinux sodium J1652 
Food 
Medical S9432-S9435 
Foot 
Arch support 
Nonremovable L3070-L3090 
Removable L3040-L3060 
Device, adductus positioning L3161 18' 
Exam G9502, G9225, G9226 
80 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Insert 
Formed to patient foot L3030 
High strength, lightweight material L3031 
Longitudinal/metatarsal support L3020 
Plastazote or equal L3002 
Silicone gel L3003 
Spence® L3001 
Pressure off-loading device A9283 
UCB type, Berkeley shell L3000 
Footcare 
Routine S0390 
Footdrop splint L4398 
Footplate E0175, E0970, L3031 
Footrest 
Complete assembly, replacement K0045 
High mount flip-up, replacement K0037 
Lower extension tube, replacement, each K0043 
Footwear L3201-L3207, L3215-L3265 
Diabetic 
Fitting A5500, A5501, A5507 
Insert, multiple density A551 0-A5514 
Modification A5503-A5506, A5507 
Shoe, off-the-shelf A5508 
Orthopedic 
Custom molded shoe L3250 
Custom shoe L3230 
Ladies shoe L3215, L3216, L3217, L3224 
Men's shoe L3219, L3221, L3222, L3225 
Forearm crutches E0110, E0111 
Formoterol J7640 
Formoterol fumarate J7606 
Formula 
Enteral 
Additive 84104 
Slenderized natural foods with intact nutrients 84149 
Complete, calorically dense 84152 
Complete with intact nutrients 84150 
Digestive enzyme(s) 84105 
Fluid and electrolyte replacement 84102 
Hydrolyzed proteins 84153 
Incomplete/modular nutrients 84155 
Pediatrics 
Complete calorically dense 84160 
Complete soy-based, intact nutrients 84159 
Complete with intact nutrients 84158 
Fluid and electrolyte replacement 84103 
Hydrolyzed/amino acids 84161 
Special metabolic needs for inherited disease of 
metabolism 84162 
Special metabolic needs 84154 
Special metabolic needs for inherited disease of 
metabolism 84157 
Fosaprepitant J1453, J1456 
Foscarnet sodium J1455 
Fosnetupitant, palonoset J 1454 
Fosphenytoin Q2009 
Fosphenytoin sodium S0078 
Foster care 
Adult S5140, S5141 
Child H0041, H0042, S5145, S5146 
Fracture 
Augmentation with implant C1062 
Bedpan E0276 
Frame E0920, E0930, E0946, E0947, E0948 
Orthosis L2106-L2136, L3980-L3984 
Orthotic additions L2180-L2192, L3995 
Treatment G0412-G0415 
Footcare - Garments 
Fragmin® (dalteparin sodium) J1645 
Frames (spectacles) V2020, V2025 
Fremanezumab-vfrm J3031 
Fresh frozen plasma see also Plasma 
Between 8-24 hours of collection P9059 
COVID-19 convalescent C9507 
Donor retested P9060 
Single donor, frozen within 8 hours of collection P9017 
Frontier extended stay clinic G9140 
Fulphila™ Q5108 
Fulvestrant J9393-J9395 
Functional 
Electrical stimulator, any type E0770 
Status G2090-G2152, G2210, G9916-G9918, 
M1043-M1049, M1149 
Furosemide J1940 
Gadobutrol A9585 
Gadofosveset trisodium A9583 
Gadoxetate disodium A9581 
Gait trainer E8000-E8002 
Gallium 
Ga-67 A9556 
Ga-68 A9587, C9067 
Nitrate J 1457 
Galsulfase J1458 
Gamma globulin J1460, J1560 
Gammagard® liquid J1569 
Gammaplex® J 1557 
Gamunex® J1561 
Ganciclovir 
Implant J7310 
Sodium J1570, J1574 
Ganirelix acetate S0132 
Garamycin® J1580 
Garments A4467 
Compression 
Accessories, Not otherwise specified A6593 @ 
Arm A6522, A6523 (81 
Arm sleeve A6576-A6578 ® 
Arm sleeve and glove combination A6574, A6575 (fl 
Bandaging A6448-A6452 
Padding S8430 
Roll A6597-A6599 ®• 
Supply A6594-A6596, A6600-A6609 1fj) 
Bra A6528, A6529 ® 
Burn A6501-A6513 
Controller E0680, E0681 ® 
Device, limb A4600, E0676 
Full leg and foot A6526, A6527 <fJi 
Gauntlet A6565, A6582 ® 
Genital region A6570, A6571 ® 
Glove A6520, A6521, A6579-A6581  
Lower leg and foot A6524, A6525 i8) 
Neck/head A6566, A6567 INl 
Non-pneumatic, sequential E0677-E0679, E0682 ® 
Not otherwise specified A6549 
Sleeve A6549 
Stocking A6549 
Below knee 
18-30 mmHg A6610, A6530 ®
30-40 mmHg A6552, A6553 ®
Used as surgical dressing A6531
40+ mmHg A6554, A6555@ 
Used as surgical dressing A6532 
@ New index entry 
81 
Gas system - Gradient compression 
Full length/chap style 
18-30 mmHg A6536, A6559 ®
30-40 mmHg A6537, A6560 ®
40+ mmHg A6538, A6561 ®
Garter belt A6544 
Thigh length 
18-30 mmHg A6533, A6556 18
30-40 mmHg A6534, A6557 ® 
40+ mmHg A6535, A6558 ® 
Waist length 
18-30 mmHg A6539, A6562@ 
30-40 mmHg A6540, A6563 ®
40+ mmHg A6541, A6564 ®
Toe caps A6572, A6573 ® 
Torso and shoulder A6568, A6569 18
) 
Wrap 
Non-elastic 
Below knee, 30-50 mmHg 
Used as surgical dressing A6545 
With adjustable straps 
Accessories, not otherwise specified A6593 18) 
Below knee 
Surgical dressing 
30-50 mmHg A6583 ®
Conductive for TENS or NMES E0731 
Incontinence A4520 
Sleeve A4600 
Stockings, surgical A4490-A4510 
Gas system 
Compressed E0424, E0425 
Gaseous E0430, E0431, E0441, E0443 
Liquid E0434-E0440, E0442, E0444 
Gastric 
Electrophysiology mapping C9787 181 
Pouch reduction C9785 ® 
Procedure 
Restrictive C9784 ll'j) 
Sleeve C9784 ® 
Gastrointestinal fat absorption study S3708 
Gastroplasty C9784 ® 
Gauze, see also Bandages 
Impregnated A6222-A6233, A6266 
Nonimpregnated A6402, A6403, A6404 
Gefitinib J8565 
Gel 
Alginate A6196-A6199 
Conductive A4558 
Coupling A4559 
Hydrogel dressing, filler A6248 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) A6261 
Pressure pad E0185, E0196 
Sheet A6025 
Wounds see Dressings 
Gel-syn® J7328 
Gelatin capsule application device L8515 
Gemcitabine HCI J9198, J9201 
Gemtuzumab ozogamicin injection J9203 
General care management, RHC/FQHC 80511 
Generator 
Cardiac contractility modulation C1824, K1030 
Neurostimulator C1767, C1820, C1822, C1823, 
C 1825-C 1827 
Ultrasonic with nebulizer E0574 
Genesis amniotic membrane Q4198 
Genetic 
Counseling S0265 
Testing S3800-S3870 
Warfarin responsiveness 89143 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Gentamicin sulfate J1580 
Givosiran J0223 
Glasses 
Air conduction V5070 
Binaural V5120-V5150 
Bone conduction V5080 
Frames V2020, V2025 
Hearing aid V5190, V5230 
Glatiramer acetate J 1595 
Glaucoma 
Plan of care 
Documented M1223 ® 
Not Documented M1222 ® 
Gloves A4927, A4930 
Glucagon HCI J1610, J1611 
Glucose 
Monitor/Monitoring 
Calibration solution/chips A4256 
Continuous noninvasive S1030, S1031 
Disposable A9275 
Home E0607 
Receiver E2102, E21 03 
Supplies A4238, A4239 
With 
Lancing/blood sample collection E2101 
Voice synthesizer E2100 
Test strips 
Dialysis A4772 
Home blood glucose A4253 
Platforms A4255 
Gluteal pad L2650 
Glycopyrrolate, inhalation solution 
Concentrated J7642 
Unit dose J7643 
Gold sodium thiomalate J1600 
Golimumab J1602 
Golodirsen J1429 
Gonadorelin HCI J 1620 
Goserelin acetate implant J9202 
Grab bar, trapeze E0910, E0940 
Grade-aid, wheelchair E097 4 
Gradient compression 
Arm sleeve A6576-A6578 @) 
Arm sleeve and glove combination A6574, A6575@ 
Bandaging A6448-A6452 
Padding S8430 
Roll A6597-A6599 ® 
Supply A6594-A6596, A6600-A6609 ® 
Device, limb A4600, E0676 
Garment 
Accessories, Not otherwise specified A6593 ® 
Arm A6522, A6523 ® 
Bra A6528, A6529 ® 
Burn A6501-A6513 
Full leg and foot A6526, A6527 ® 
Genital region A6570, A6571 ® 
Glove A6520, A6521 ® 
Lower leg and foot A6524, A6525 <31 
Neck/head A6566, A6567 ® 
Not otherwise specified A6549 
Toe caps A6572, A6573 1f,!1 
Torso and shoulder A6568, A6569 ® 
Gauntlet A6565, A6582 ® 
Glove A6579-A6581 ® 
Sleeve A6549 
Stocking A6549· 
Below knee 
18-30 mm Hg A6610, A6530 ltil
82 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
30-40 mmHg A6552, A6553 ®
Used as surgical dressing A6531
40+ mmHg A6554, A6555 ® 
Used as surgical dressing A6532 
Full length/chap style 
18-30 mmHg A6536, A6559 <8)
30-40 mmHg A6537, A6560 ®
40+ mmHg A6538, A6561 ®
Garter belt A6544 
Thigh length 
18-30 mmHg A6533, A6556 ®
30-40 mmHg A6534, A6557 ®
40+ mmHg A6535, A6558 !'l)
Waist length 
18-30 mmHg A6539, A6562 IMl 
30-40 mmHg A6540, A6563 ®
40+ mmHg A6541, A6564 ®
Wrap 
Non-elastic 
Below knee, 30-50 mmHg 
Used as surgical dressing A6545 
With adjustable straps 
Accessories, not otherwise specified A6593 <NJ 
Below knee 
Surgical dressing 
30-50 mmHg A6583 (NI
Gradient pressure 
Aid supplies S8420-S8429 
Wrap 
With adjustable straps 
Above knee A6585 ® 
ArmA6588 ® 
Bra A6589 INI 
FootA6587® 
Full leg A6586 ® 
Grafix®/Grafixpl® 
Core Q4132 
Prime Q4133 
Graft, vascular C1604, C1768 181 
Granisetron 
Extended release J1627 
HCI J1626, Q0166, S0091 
Granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) J1442, 
Q5101 
Gravity traction device E0941 
Gravlee jet washer A4470 
Group psychotherapy C7903, G0410, G0411 <l':!l 
Guidewire C1769 
Guselkumab J1628 
Gynecological 
Examination S0610, S0612, S0613 
Haberman feeder, cleft palate S8265 
Habilitation 
Day T2020, T2021 
Educational T2012, T2013 
Prevocational T2014, T2015, T2047 
Residential T2016, T2017 
Supported employment T2018, T2019 
Haegarda® injection J0599 
Hair analysis (excluding arsenic) P2031 
Hallux 
Prosthetic implant L8642 
Va Igus dynamic splint L3100 
Halo procedures L0810, L0820, L0830, L0859, L0861 
Gradient pressure - Heart 
Haloperidol J1630 
Haloperidol decanoate J 1631 
Halter, cervical head E0942 
Hand finger orthosis, prefabricated L3923 
Hand restoration L6900-L6915 
Orthosis (WHFO) E1805, E1825, L3763-L3809, 
L3900-L3956 
Partial prosthesis L6000-L6020 
Rims, wheelchair, replacement E0967 
Handgrip (cane, crutch, walker) A4636 
Harness E0942, E0944, E0945 
Harvesting 
Cord blood S2140 
Donor multivisceral organs S2055 
Health club membership S9970 
Health related social needs screening (HRSNS) 
M1317-M1320 IN) 
Head 
Imaging 
For clinical trial G9537 
Trauma G0047 
Hearing aids V5030-V5060, V5120-V5267, V5298 
Binaural 
Analog V5248, V5249 
CIC V5248 
ITC V5249 
Contralateral routing device 
BTE/BTE V5221 
ITC/BTE V5215 
ITC/ITC V5214 
ITE/BTE V5213 
ITE/ITC V5212 
ITE/ITE V5211 
Contralateral routing system, glasses V5230 
Digital 
BTE V5261 
CIC V5258 
ITC V5259 
ITE V5260 
Digitally programmable 
BTE V5253 
ITC V5251 
ITE V5252 
Disposable V5263 
Monaural V5030-V5060 
Analog 
CIC (completely in ear canal) V5242 
ITC (in the canal) V5243 
Contralateral routing device 
STE V5181 
ITC V5172 
ITE V5171 
Contralateral routing glasses V5190 
Digital 
BTE V5257 
CIC V5254 
ITC V5255 
ITE V5256 
Digitally programmable 
BTE V5247 
CIC V5244 
ITC V5245 
ITE V5246 
Disposable V5262 
Hearing services and supplies L8614, V5008-V5364 
Heart 
Failure 
Procedure C9792 1f,i, 
® New index entry 
83 
Heat - Hyaluronan 
Transplant history M1151, M1152 
Valve prosthesis G0043 
Heat 
Application E0200-E0239 
Infrared heating pad system A4639, E0221 
Lamp E0200, E0205 
Pad E0210, E0215, E0217,E0221, E0249 
Heater (nebulizer) E1372 
Heel 
Elevator, air E0370 
Protector E0191 
Shoe L3430-L3485 
Stabilizer L3170 
Helicoll™ 04164 
Helicopter, ambulance A0431 
Helmets A8000-A8004 
Hemin J1640 
Hemi-pelvectomy prosthesis L5280 
Hemi-wheelchair E1083-E1086 
Hemodialysis see Dialysis 
Hemodialyzer, portable E1635 
Hemofil M J7190 
Hemophilia clotting factor J7190-J7198 
Not elsewhere classified (NEC) J7199 
Hemostatic agent, gastrointestinal, topical C1052 
Hemostick® and similar products A4773 
Hep-lock {heparin lock) J1642 
HepaGam B® J1571, J1573 
Heparin 
Infusion pump, dialysis E1520 
Lock flush J1642 
Sodium J1643, J1644 
Hep b screen high risk indiv G0499 
Hepatitis B status G9504 
Hexalite® A4590 
Hexaminolevulinate hydrochloride A9589 
High osmolar contrast material 09958-09964 
High risk area, delivery or service S9381 
Hip 
Core decompression S2325 
Disarticulation prosthesis L5250, L5270 
Orthosis (HO) L 1600-L 1690@ 
Total resurfacing, metal on metal S2118 
Hip-knee-ankle-foot orthosis (HKAFO) L2040-L2090 
History and physical, outpatient, presurgical S0260 
Histotripsy 
Renal tissue C9790 ® 
Histrelin 
Acetate J1675 
Implant J9225 
HIV 
Antigen/antibody screening G0475, S3645 
Counseling for Prep G0011, G0013 ® 
Injection, Prep G0012 in 
HKAFO (hip-knee-ankle-foot orthosis) L2040-L2090 
Holding chamber or spacer S8100, S8101 
Home care services G0076-G0087, S9097, S9098, S9110, 
S9122-S9131 
Chore S5120-S5121 
Companion care S5135, S5136 
Foster care S5140-S5146 
Homemaker S5130, S5131 
Infusion therapy S5497-S5523, S9325-S9379, 
S9490-S9504 
Injection therapy S9537, S9542, S9558, S9559, S9560, 
S9562, S9563 it!I 
INR monitoring G0248, G0249, G0250 
Irrigation therapy S9590 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Laundry S5175 
Meals, delivered S5170 
Medication reminder service S5185 
Nurse practitioner S0274, S9122-S9124 
Other services S5165, S5170, S5175 
Pharmacy S981 0 
Phototherapy S9098 
Physical therapy G0151, G0157, G0159, G2168, G2169 
Respiratory therapy S5180, S5181 
Respite care S5150, S5151, T1005 
RN, LPN visit by RHC/FOHC G0490 
Training S5108-S5116 
Transfusion S9538 
Wound care S9097 
Home health agency services G0320-G0322, T1019-T1022 
Home therapy and management services G2168, G2169, 
S0270-S0272,S0280,S0281,S5522, S5523,S9208-S9379 
Home uterine monitor S9001 
Hospice and/or home health services 
Aide G0156, T1004 
Assisted-living facility 05002 
Care G0051, T2042-T2046 
Care coordinator G9477 
Chaplain G9473 
Clinical social worker GO 155 
Dietary counselor G9474 
Documentation M1275, M1303, M1307, M1365181 
Hospice facility 05010 
Inpatient hospice facility 05006 
Inpatient hospital 05005 
Inpatient psychiatric facility 05008 
Long term care facility Q5007 
Long-term care facility 05003 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) 05009 
Nursing G0128, G0162, G0299, G0300, G0493, G0494, 
G0495,G0496,T1000, T1002, T1003 
Occupational therapy G0129, G0152, G0158, G0160 
Other counselor G9475 
Patient's home 05001, S9126 
Pharmacist G9479 
Physical therapy G0151, G0157, G0159, G2168, G2169 
Physician S0270, S0271, S0272, S0273 
Referral S0255 
Services G9723, G9819, M1067, M1154, M1159, M1165, 
M1167, M1186, M1191, T2042-T2046 
Skilled nursing facility 05004 
Speech and language G0153, G0161 
Therapist G9478 
Volunteer G9476 
Hospital services 
Admission/transfer G8907, G8914, G8915 
Inpatient admissions G9521, G9522 
Observation/ED visit G0378-G0384 
Hospitalist services S0310 
Housing, supported H0043, H0044 
Hot or cold fluid bottle A9273 
Hotline service, behavioral health H0030 
Human breast milk processing T2101 
Human 
Fibrinogen concentrate J7177, J7178 
Plasmafibrin sealant C9250 
Humidifier A7046, E0550-E0562 
Hyalgan® J7321 
Hyaluronan 
Euflexxa J7323 
Gel-One J7326 
Gel-Syn J7328 
Genvisc J7320 
84 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Hyalgan J7321 
Hymovis J7322 
Monovisc J7327 
Orthovisc J7324 
Supartz J7321 
Synojoynt J7331 
Synvisc J7325 
Triluron J7332 
Trivisc J7329 
Visco-3 J7321 
Hyaluronidase J3470 
Ovine J3471, J3472, J3473 
Hydralazine HCI J0360 
Hydraulic patient lift E0630 
Hydrocollator E0225, E0239 
Hydrocolloid dressing A6234-A6241 
Hydrocortisone 
Acetate J1700 
Sodium phosphate J1710 
Sodium succinate J1720 
Hydrogel dressing A6231, A6232, A6233, A6242-A6248 
Hydromorphone J1170 
Hydromorphone hydrochloride S0092 
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate injection 
Makena® J1726 
NOS J1729 
Hydroxyurea, oral S0176 
Hydroxyzine 
HCI J3410 
Pamoate Q0177 
Hygienic item, device, any A9286 
Hylan G-F 20 J7325 
Hyoscyamine sulfate J 1980 
Hyperbaric oxygen treatment 
Full body chamber G0277 
Topical A4575 
Hypertonic saline solution J7131 
lbalizumab-uiyk J1746 
lbandronate sodium J 17 40 
Ibuprofen J1741 
lbutilide fumarate J1742 
lcatibant J1744 
Ice cap or collar A9273 
ldarubicin HCI J9211 
ldecabtagene vicleucel Q2055 
ldursulfase J1743 
lfosfamide J9208 
Illness navigation G0023, G0024, G0140, G0146 ® 
lloprost Q4074 
Imaging 
Angiography G0278 
Cardiac stress G8961-G8966 
Computed tomography (CT) G9341, G9342, G9344, 
G9351-G9354, G9753, S8092 
Dose reduction technique G9637, G9638 
Echocardiography C8923-C8930 
Head G2187-G2195, G9537, M1027-M1029 
Hepatic bile duct C9776 
Magnetic resonance (MRI) C1770, C8900-C8920, 
C8931-C8937, C9762, C9763, C9791, S8037, S8042 ® 
Magnetic source S8035 
PET scan G0219, G0235, G0252, S8085 
Studies S8030-S8092 
Ultrasound C1753, G8806, S8055, S9024 
lmatinib S0088 
lmiglucerase J1786 
Hyaluronidase - Implant 
lmipenem 4 mg, cilastatin 4 mg, and relebactam 2 mg J0742 
Immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy M1180, M1183, 
M1185 
Immune globulin 
Bivigam™ J1556 
Cutaquig® J 1551 
Cuvitru ™ J 1555 
Flebogamma® J1572 
Gammagard® liquid J1569 
Gammaplex® J1557 
Gamunex® J1561 
HepaGam® B J1571 
Hizentra® J1559 
HyQvia® J1575 
Intravenous services, supplies and accessories Q2052 
Nonlyophilized, not otherwise specified (NOS) J1599 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) J1566 
Octagam® J1568 
Privigen® J1459 
Rho(D)J2788,J2790 
Rhophylac® J2791 
Subcutaneous J 1562 
With hyaluronidase J1575 
Xembify® J1558 
Immunization 
Counseling G031 0-G0315 
lmpax membrane, dual layer Q4262 
Implant 
Access system A4301 
Aqueous shunt L8612 
Auditory brain stem S2235 
Autologous cultured chondrocytes J7330 
Breast L8600 
Buprenorphine J0570 
Catheter, access A4300, A4301 
Cochlear L8614, L8619 
Collagen 
Meniscus G0428 
Urinary tract L8603 
Device 
NOC C1889 
Not used C1890 
Prosthetic, impatient only C9899 
Dextranomer/hyaluronic acid copolymer L8604 
Dosimeter A4650 
Ganciclovir J7310 
Hallux L8642 
Infusion pump, programmable E0783, E0786 
lnteratrial shunt JOE C9758, C9760 
lnterspinous implant C1821 
Joint L8630, L8641, L8658 
Lacrimal duct A4262, A4263 
Magnetic component, hearing device S2230 
Metacarpophalangeal joint L8630 
Metatarsal joint L8641 
Mometasone furoate sinus J7 402 
Neurostimulator pulse generator L8679, L8681, L8685, 
L8686, L8687,L8688 
lnner ear A4638, E2120 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) L8699 
Ocular C1783, L8610 
Orthopedic/device/drug matrix C1602, C1734 ® 
Ossicular L8613 
Osteogenesis stimulator E0749 
Percutaneous access system A4301 
Radiation dosimeter A4650 
if!) New index entry 
85 
Impregnated gauze dressing - Infusion 
Replacement implantable intraspinal catheter E0785 
Septa! defect system C1817 
Sinuva J7402 
Synthetic, urinary L8606 
Urinary tract L8603, L8606 
Vascular graft C1604, L8670 ® 
Impregnated gauze dressing A6222-A6230 
Impression casting, foot S0395 
lnclisiran J 1306 
lncobotulinumtoxin A J0588 
Incontinence supplies 
86 
Anchoring device A4333, A4334, A5200 
Bag, drainage A5112 
Bedside A4357 
Leg/abdomen A4358 
With suspensory A5105 
Barrier, skin A5120-A5122 
Bottle, bedside drainage A5102 
Brief/Diaper 
Disposable A4520 
Adult 
Above extra-large T 4543 
Extra-large T4524 
Large T4523 
Medium T4522 
Small T4521 
Pediatric 
Large T4530 
Small/Medium T4529 
Youth T4533 
Reusable, any size T 4539 
Catheter 
Indwelling A4341, A4342 <N 
Foley-type A4338, A4344, A4346 
Specialty A4340 
Intermittent A4351-A4353 
Clamp, urethral A4356, A4360 
Cleaner, appliance A5131 
Devices/Supplies A431 0-A4360, A5102-A5200 
Diaper/Brief 
Disposable A4520 
Adult 
Above extra-large T4543 
Extra-large T4524 
Large T4523 
Medium T4522 
Small T4521 
Pediatric 
Large T4530 
Small/Medium T4529 
Youth T4533 
Reusable, any size T4538, T4539 
Electrical stimulator system, pelvic floor E0740 
Female external A4327, A4328 
Garment A4520 
Insert 
Rectal A4337 
Urethral A4336 
Liner/shield/guard/pad T4535 
Lubricant A4332 
Male external A4326, A4349 
Miscellaneous A4335 
Ostomy, urinary A5071, A5072, A5073 
Pad, disk or foam A5126 
Penile wrap, disposable T4545 
Rectal 
Control system A4563 
Insert A4337 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Repair device 
Sling graft C1771 
Without sling graft C2631 
Service, diaper T 4538 
Strap, leg A4334, A5113, A5114 
Suspensory with leg bag A5105 
Syringe, irrigation A4322 
Tray 
Insertion A431 0-A4316, A4354 
Irrigation A4320 
Tubing 
Drainage, extension A4331 
Irrigation A4355 
Underpad 
Bed T4537 
ChairT4540 
Disposable A4554 
Large T4521, T4541 
Small T4542 
Non-disposable A4553, T 4537 
Underwear, protective T4536 
Adult 
Above extra-large T4544 
Extra-large T4524, T4528 
Large T4523, T4527 
Medium T4522, T4526 
Small T4521, T4525 
Pediatric T 4531, T 4532 
Large T4532 
Small/Medium T4531 
Youth T4534 
Indium IN-111 
Capromab pendetide A9507 
lbritumomab tiuxetan A9542 
Labeled autologous 
Platelets A9571 
White blood cells A9570 
Oxyquinoline A9547 
Pentetate A9548 
Pentetreotide A9572 
Satumomab A4642 
Induction, medical indication G9361 
lnebilizumab J1823 
Infection control supplies S8301 
Infectious agent antibody detection 
Enzyme immunoassay (EIA) technique G0432 
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique 
G0433 
Nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) G0476 
Rapid antibody test G0435 
lnfliximab 
abda 05104 
dyyb 05103 
Injection J1745, 05121 
qbtx 05109 
lnflectra® 05103 
Influenza virus vaccine M1299, M1300, M1308 16> 
Afluria® 02035 
Agriflu® 02034 
FluLaval® 02036 
Fluvirin® 02037 
Fluzone® 02038 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) 02039 
lnfugem J9198 
Infusion 
Blood and blood products P9041-P9048 
COVID-19 M0249, M0250 
Intravenous, OPPS C8957 
is, New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Normal saline solution 
250 cc J7050 
500 ml J7040 
1000 cc J7030 
Other than hemodialysis C1751 
Professional services G0068-G0070 
Pump K0455 
Ambulatory E0779-E0787 
External E0784, K0552 
lmplantable/insertable E0782, E0783, E0785, E0786, 
C1890 
Insulin A4224-A4232, E0784, E0787, S9145 
Intravenous-pole E0776 
Mechanical, reusable E0779, E0780 
Nonprogrammable, permanent C1891 
Nonprogrammable, temporary C2626 
Parenteral E0791 
Programmable C1772, E0786 
Refill kit A4220 
Supplies A4221, A4222, A4224, A4225, A4226, A4230, 
A4231,A4232, E0776-E0791, K0455-K0605 
Uninterrupted parenteral administration of medication 
K0455 
Supplies A4206-A4232, E0776-E0791, K0552-K0605, S1015 
Therapy 
Home 
Alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor S9346 
Anti-emetic infusion, continuous or intermittent S9351 
Anti-hemophilic agent infusion S9345 
Anti-spasmodic S9363 
Anti-tumor necrosis factor S9359 
Antibiotic, antiviral, or antifungal S9494-S9504 
Anticoagulant infusion S9336 
Catheter care/maintenance S5497, S5498, S5501, 
S5502 
Catheter repair kit S5518 
Chelation S9355 
Chemotherapy infusion S9329 
Continuous (24 hours or more) S9330 
Intermittent S9331 
Declotting kit S5517 
Diuretic S9361 
Enzyme replacement intravenous therapy S9357 
Hydration therapy S9373, S9374, S9375, S9376, 
S9377 
lmmunotherapy S9338 
Infusion S5497-S5523, S9325-S9379 
Insulin infusion S9353 
Midline catheter insert kit S5521 
Pain management infusion S9328 
PICC insert kit S5520 
Repair of infusion device S5036 
Routine device maintenance S5035 
Sympathomimetic/inotropic agent infusion S9349 
Total parenteral nutrition S9364, S9365, S9366, 
S9367, S9368 
Other than chemotherapeutic drugs Q0081 
Inhalation solution, see Appendix A: Table of Drugs and 
Biologicals 
Inhaler holding chamber or spacer A4627, S8100, S8101 
In-home visit 
Existing patient G2006-G2013 
New patient G2001-G2005 
Initial services for Medicare enrollment G0402-G0405 
Injection, see also Appendix A: Table of Drugs and 
Biologicals 
Blood Factor J7175-J7209 
Sacroiliac joint 80259, G0260 
Supplies A4206-A4232 
Self-administered A4211 
Inhalation solution - Intravenous admin set 
lnotuzumab ozogamicin J9229 
Inpatient 
Admissions 
From outpatient, ED, or observation G2176 
Prosthetic device, implanted C9899 
INR monitoring 80248, 80249, G0250 
Insertion tray 
With drainage bag 
With indwelling catheter, Foley-type 
Three-way, for continuous irrigation A4316 
Two-way, all silicone A4315 
Two-way, latex with coating A4314 
Without catheter A4354 
With indwelling catheter, Foley-type 
Three-way, for continuous irrigation A4313 
Two-way, all silicone A4312 
Two-way, latex with coating A4311 
Without catheter A431 O 
Without drainage bag 
Instillation 
Anti-neoplastic 
Into renal pelvis C9789 (fl, 
Insulin see also Diabetes 
Medication and supplies A4224-A4239, J 1815, J1817, 
S5550-S5571 
Outpatient intravenous treatment (OIVIT) G9147 
Pump 
Initiation S9145 
Supplies A4224-A4232 
Syringes S8490 
Intake activities w/medical exam G2076 
Integrated keratoprosthesis C 1818 
lnteratrial shunt ide C9758, C9760 
Interdisciplinary team conference 80175, S0221 
lnterferential current stimulator S8130, S8131 
Interferon 
Alpha J9212, J9213, J9214, J9215 
Beta-1a J1826, Q3027, Q3028 
Beta-1 b J1830 
Gamma J9216 
Interim labor facility, global S4005 
Intermittent 
Assist device with CPAP device E0470, E0471, E0472 
Limb compression device A4600, E0676 
Peritoneal dialysis system E1592 
Positive pressure breathing (IPPB) machine E0500 
lnterphalangeal joint, prosthetic implant L8658, L8659 
lnterscapular thoracic prosthesis 
Endoskeletal L6570 
Upper limb L6350-L6370 
lntracardiac echocardiography (catheter) C1759 
lntradiscal catheter C1754 
lntragastric hypothermia M0100 
lntraocular lens 
Category 4 Q1004 
Category 5 Q1005 
New technology C1780 
Phakic S0596 
Telescopic C1840 
lntraoperative 
Cystoscopy 89606, 89607, G9608 
Fluorescence lymph mapping C9756 
Neurophysiology monitoring G0453 
Intrapulmonary percussive ventilation system E0481 
lntraspinal catheter C1755 
Intrauterine copper contraceptive J7300 
Intravenous admin set, non-PVC, for unstable drugs 
S1016 
i\l New index entry 
87 
Introducer sheaths - Laparoscopic esophagomyotomy 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Introducer sheaths 
Guiding C1766, C1892, C1893 
Other than guiding C1894, C2629 
lnversion/eversion correction device A9285 
Iodine 1-123 
lobenguane A9582 
loflupane A9584 
Sodium iodide A9509, A9516 
Iodine 1-125 
Serum albumin A9532 
Sodium iodide A9527 
Sodium iothalamate A9554 
Iodine 1-131 
lobenguane A9590 
lobenguane sulfate A9508 
Iodinated serum albumin A9524 
Sodium iodide capsule A9517, A9528 
Sodium iodide solution A9529, A9530, A9531 
Iodine swabs/wipes A4247 
IPD system E1592 
lpilimumab J9228 
IPPB machine E0500 
lpratropium bromide, inhalation solution J7644, J7645 
lrinotecan J9206 
Liposome J9205 
Iris prosthesis C1839 
Iron 
Dextran J1750 
Sucrose J1756 
Irrigation supplies A4320, A4321, A4322, A4355, 
A4398-A4400, 02004 
Evacuation system, bowel 
Control unit E0350 
Disposable supplies E0352 
Manual pump enema A4453, A4459 
Tubing, A4457 If! 
Ostomy A4361-A4437 
BagA4398 
Cone/catheter, with or without brush A4399 
SetA4400 
Sleeve A4436, A4437 
Solution for bladder calculi 02004 
Syringe, bulb or piston A4322 
Therapeutic agent for urinary catheter irrigation A4321 
Three-way indwelling Foley catheter A4355 
Tray with bulb or piston syringe A4320 
Tubing set for continuous bladder A4355 
lsatuximab-irfc J9227 
lsavuconazonium J1833 
lsoetharine HCI, inhalation solution 
Concentrated J7647, J7648 
Unit dose J7649, J7650 
Isolates B4150, B4152 
lsoproterenol HCI, inhalation solution 
Concentrated J7657, J7658 
Unit dose J7659, J7660 
lsosulfan blue 09968 
Itch severity M 1196-M 1198, M 1204-M 1206 
ltraconazole J1835 
IV 
Administration set, non- PVC S1016 
Pole, each E0776, K0105 
Tubing extension S1015 
lxabepilone J9207 
IXIFI™ 05109 
88 
Jacket, scoliosis L1300, L1310 
Jaw motion rehabilitation systems E 1700-E 1702 
Jemperli J9272 
Jenamicin J1580 
Joint device C1776, K1007 
Kanamycin sulfate J1840, J1850 
Kartop® patient lift, toilet, or bathroom E0625 
Keramatrix® 04165 
Keratectotomy S0810, S0812 
Keratoprosthesis, integrated C1818 
Kerecis ™ 04158 
Ketone 
Reagent strips, blood A4252 
Ketorolac tromethamine J1885 
Keroxx 04202 
Kidney 
ESRD supply A4653-A4932 
Health evaluation M1189, M1190 
System E1510 
Wearable artificial E1632 
Kits 
Enteral feeding supply 
Elastomeric fed B4148 ® 
Gravity fed B4036 
Pump fed B4035 
Syringe fed B4034 
Fistula cannulation (set) A4730 
Parenteral nutrition B4220-B4224 
Surgical dressing (tray) A4550 
Tracheostomy A4625 
Knee 
Disarticulation, prosthesis L5150, L5160 
Joint, miniature L5826 
Orthosis (KO) E1810, L 1810-L 1860 
System L5615 ® 
Knee-ankle-foot orthosis (KAFO) L2000-L2038, 
L2126-L2136 
Addition, high strength L2755 
Replace components L4070-L411 0 
Kovaltry J7211 
Kyphosis pad L 1020, L 1025 
Laboratory tests 
Blood and hair P2028-P2038 
Cytopathology P3000, P3001, 00091 
Miscellaneous P9010- P9615, 00111, 00112, 00113, 
00114, 00115 
Screening G0432-G0435 
Lacrimal duct implant 
Permanent A4263 
Temporary A4262 
Lactated Ringer's infusion J7120 
Laetrile J3570 
Laminotomy C9757 
Lanadelumab-flyo J0593 
Lancet spring-powered device 
Each A4258 
Per box 100 A4259 
Lanreotide J1930, J1932 
Laparoscopic esophagomyotomy S2079 
11il New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Laronidase J1931 
Larynx, artificial L8500 
Laser 
Blood collection device and accessory A4257, A4652, 
E0620 
Treatment, low level S8948 
Laser-assisted 
Uvulopalatoplasty S2080 
LASIK S0800 
Lead 
Cardioverter-defibrillator, coil C1777, C1895, C1896 
Coronary venous system C1900 
Investigation T1029 
Neurostimulator C1778, C1883, C1897 
Pacemaker C1779, C1898, C1899 
Wires, per pair A4557 
Left ventricular assist device (LVAD) M1151, M1152 
Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) G8395, G8396, 
M1150 
Lead, endocardial single coil C1777 
Lefamulin J0691 
Leg 
Bag A4358, A5105, A5112 
Extensions for walker E0158 
Pain M1052 
Rest 
Elevating K0195 
Wheelchair E0990 
Strap, replacement A5113, A5114 
Legg Perthes orthosis L 1700-L 1755 
Lens supplies and services 
Aniseikonic V2118, V2318 
Aspherical V241 0-V2499 
Bifocal V2200-V2299 
Contact V2500-V2599 
Eye S0504-S0510, S0516-S0590, S0595, V2100-V2615, 
V2700-V2799 
lntraocular C1780, C1840, Q1004, Q1005, V2630, V2631, 
V2632 
Low vision V2600-V2615 
Progressive V2781 
Single vision V21 00-V2199 
Trifocal V2300-V2399 
Lepirudin J1945 
Leucovorin calcium J0640 
Leukocyte poor blood, each unit P9016 
Leuprolide 
Acetate 
0.25 mg J1951 
1 mg J9218 
3.75 mg J1950 
7.5 mg J9217 
65 mg (implant) J9219 
Mesylate (Camcevi ™) J1952 
Levalbuterol 
Compounded product J7607, J7615 
Noncompounded J7612, J7614 
Levamisole hydrochloride, oral S0177 
Levetiracetam J 1953 
Levocarnitine J 1955 
Levofloxacin J1956 
Levoleucovorin J0641, J0642 
Levonorgestrel, implants and supplies J7296, J7297, 
J7298,J7301,J7306 
Levorphanol tartrate J 1960 
Lexidronam A9604 
Lice treatment A9180 
Lidocaine HCI J2001 
Lidocaine/tetracaine patch C9285 
Laronidase - Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) 
Lifestyle modification program, cardiac S0340, S0341, 
S0342 
Lift 
Patient (includes seat type) E0621-E0642 
Shoe L3300-L3334 
Light 
Box E0203 
Bulb A4633, A4634 
Therapy, UV E0691-E0694 
Lincomycin HCI J201 0 
Linezolid J2020, J2021 
Lipid microspheres Q9950, Q9955, Q9957 
Liposomal 
Daunorubicin and cytarabine J9153 
Liquid barrier, ostomy A4363 
Lisocabtagene Q2054 
Lithium ion 
Battery, rechargeable 
Auditory Osseointegrated device L8624 
Cochlear implant speech processor L8623, L8624 
Nonprosthetic use A4601 
Prosthetic use L 7367 
Charger L7368 
Lithotripsy 
Extracorporeal shockwave S0400, S9034 
Transluminal intravascular 
Catheter C1761 
Lobectomy, living donor S2061 
Localization device, surgical implantable C1819 
Lodging 
Per diem S9976 
Recipient, escort nonemergency transport A0180, A0200 
Transport related S9975 
Lomustine, oral S0178 
Loncastuximab Tesirine-Lpyl J9359 
Lorazepam J2060 
Low frequency ultrasonic diathermy treatment device 
K1004, K1036 ® 
Low osmolar contrast material 
100-199 mg/ml Q9965
200-299 mg/ml Q9966
300-399 mg/ml Q9967
Loxapine for inhalation J2062 
Lubricant A4332, A4402 
Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO) L0621-L0640 
Lumbar spine condition M 1037-M 1041 , M 1051 
Lung 
Biopsy plug with delivery system C2613 
Cancer screening, low dose CT G0296 
Volume reduction surgery (LVRS) 
Postdischarge services G0305 
Preoperative services G0302, G0303, G0304 
Lurbinectedin J9223 
Luspatercept-aamt J0896 
Lutetium lu 177, dotatateA9513 
Luxturna™ J3398 
Lymphatic mapping, intraoperative fluorescence C9756 
Lymphedema therapy S8431 , S8950 
Lymphocyte immune globulin J7504, J7511 
Magnesium sulphate, injection J3475 
Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) 
Abdomen C8901 
With contrast C8900 
Without contrast followed with contrast C8902 
Chest C8910 
With contrast C8909 
Without contrast followed with contrast C8911 
® New index entry 
89 
MRI - Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) 
Lower extremity C8913 
With contrast C8912 
Without contrast followed with contrast C8914 
Pelvis C8919 
With contrast C8918 
Without contrast followed with contrast C8920 
Spinal canal and contents C8932 
With contrast C8931 
Without contrast followed with contrast C8933 
Upper extremity C8935 
With contrast C8934 
Without contrast followed with contrast C8936 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
Breast 
Bilateral 
With contrast C8906 
Without contrast followed by 
With contrast C8908 
Computer-aided detection C8937 
Unilateral 
With contrast C8903 
Without contrast followed by 
With contrast C8905 
Cardiac C9762, C9763 
Chest C9791 'fP 
Maintenance, ESRD 
Electrical A4870 
Plumbing A4870 
Repairs A4890 
Major depressive disorder G9212, G9213 
Mannitol 
Inhaler J7665 
Injection J2150 
MAPCP demonstration project G9151, G9152, G9153 
Mapping 
Brain, topographic S8040 
Lymph nodes C9756 
Marker 
Tissue A4648 
Mask 
Oxygen A4620 
Surgical A4928 
Mastectomy 
Bra L8000 
Camisole S8460 
Documentation M1280 ® 
Form L8020 
Prosthesis L8030, L8600 
Sleeve L8010 
Masters two step S3904 
Matrion Q4201 
Matrix, drug C1602, C1734 Nl 
Mattress 
Air pressure E0186 
Pad E0197 
Alternating pressure E0183, E0277 
Dry pressure E0184 
Pad E0199 
Gel pressure E0196 
Pad E0185 
Hospital bed E0271, E0272 
Nonpowered, pressure reducing E0373 
Overlay E0181, E0371, E0372 
Powered, pressure reducing E0183, E0277 
Water pressure E0 187 
Pad E0198 
Meals 
Per diem S9977 
Measurement of hepatic portosystem C9768 
Mecasermin, injection J2170 
Mechlorethamine HCI, injection J9230 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Medicaid certified community behavioral health clinic 
services 
Per diem T1040 
Per month T1041 
Medical 
Conference S0220, S0221 
Food S9432, S9433, S9434, S9435 
Home program S0280, S0281 
Record copying fee S9981, S9982 
Supplies A4206-A8004 
Medicare 
Appropriate use criteria program, CDSM G1001-G1004, 
G1007-G1024 
Care Choice Model (MCCM) program admission G9480 
Demonstration project G9013-G9140 
Diabetes Prevention Program (MDPP) core session(s) 
G9873-G9875 
Bridge payment G9890 
Maintenance G9876-G9879, G9882-G9885 
Session reporting G9891 
Weight loss achieved G9880-G9881 
Enrolled in opioid treatment program G2067-G2080 
Medication see also Appendix A: Table of Drugs and 
Biologicals 
Assisted treatment G2067-G2075, G2080 
Oral administration H0033 
Reminder service S5185 
Services H2010 
Training and support H0034 
Medroxyprogesterone acetate J 1050 
Megestrol acetate, oral S0179 
Melanoma G8749, G8944, G9292-G9295 
Meloxicam J1738 
Melphalan 
Injection J9245, J9246 
Oral J8600 
Membrane graft/wrap Q4205 
Menotropins S0122 
Mental health services C7900-C7902, H0031, H0032, 
H0035, H0046, H2000-H2037 
Meperidine and promethazine HCI, injection J2180 
Meperidine hydrochloride J2175 
Mepivacaine HCI J0670 
Mepolizumab injection J2182 
Mercaptopurine, oral S0108 
Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) 
ACE inhibitor 
Not prescribed M1201-M1203 
Prescribed M 1200 
Activity therapy GO 176 
Adolescent depression remission 
Not reached 12 mon. M1020 
Reached 12 mo. M1019 
AF, transient or reversible cause G9929 
Alcohol (and/or drug) 
Abuse and prevention services H0002, H0004, 
H0017-H0019, H0031, H0034-H0037, H0039, 
H0040,H2000,H2001, H2010-H2020 
Screening G9621, G9622, G9624 
Amoxicillin as first-line antibiotic 
Not prescribed at the time of diagnosis 
Medical reason G9313 
Reason not documented G9314 
Prescribed at the time of diagnosis G9315 
Anaphylaxis 
Due to 
HPV vaccine M1163 
Meningococcal vaccine M 1160 
Pneumococcal vaccine M1155, M1306 ® 
90 
ti!' New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis vaccine M1161 
Vaccine M1219, M1311 ® 
Androgen deprivation therapy 
Not prescribed/administered, medical reason G9895 
Not prescribed/administered, patient reason G9896 
Not prescribed/administered, reason not given G9897 
Prescribed/administered G9894 
Anesthesia care services (MAC) G9654 
Anesthetic Inhalation G9955 
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) or angiotensin 
receptor blocker (ARB) therapy 
Not prescribed 
Reason documented G8474, G8936 
Reason not documented G8475, G8937 
Prescribed G8473, G8935 
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or 
angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) or angiotensin 
receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI) 
Not prescribed 
Medical reason G2093 
Patient reason G2094 
Reason not given G2096 
Prescribed G2092 
Antibiotic 
Regimen G9498, G9505 
Not prescribed within specified time period G9287 
Taken within 30 days prior to episode date G9703 
Therapy 
Not prescribed or dispensed G8708 
Prescribed or dispensed G8710, G8711, G9712 
Anticoagulation (oral anticoagulant) 
Not prescribed 
Medical reason G8968 
Patient reason G8969 
Reason not given G9928 
Prescribed G8967 
Anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal 
antibodies G9839-G9845 
Anti-TNF therapy for Hepatitis B 
Documented immunity G8869 
Hepatitis 
Hep B status assessed prior to therapy G9912 
Hep B status not assessed prior to therapy G9913 
No record HBV results G9915 
Patient initiated anti-tnf agent G9914 
Apnea hypopnea index 
Measured G8842 
Not measured 
Reason documented G8843 
Reason not documented G8844 
Aspirin/antiplatelet therapy G9793, G9795 
Not on daily aspirin or other anti-platelet, medical reason 
documented G2128 
Assessments, patient 
Disease activity, not assessed M 1006 
Functional outcomes, documented G8942 
Index M1338-M1341, M1363 I1ll 
Psoriasis G9649, G9651, G9764 
Rheumatoid arthritis encounters M1007, M1008 
Asthma 
Reporting 
Not well-controlled G9434 
Well-controlled G9432 
Back pain 
Measured G2136-G2139 
Not measured G9943, G9946 
Behavioral health services 
Counseling G0447, G0473 
Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) 
Intensive S9480 
Training and educational services, G0177 
Beta-blocker therapy 
Documentation 
Medical reason G9190 
Patient reason G9191 
Not prescribed G8452 
Reasons documented G8451 
Reasons not documented G9188 
Prescribed G8450, G9189 
Biopsy results G9784-G9786 
Bladder injury G9625, G9626, G9627 
Blood pressure monitoring G9788, G9789, G9790, M1278, 
M1279, M1281, M1288, M1294I& 
Cardiovascular prevention G8783, G8785 
Controlling high blood pressure G8752-G8756 
No procedure-related BP taken at outpatient visit G2129 
Blunt head trauma G9529, G9530, G9531, G9533 
Pediatric patient G9593, G9594, G9595, G9597 
BMI (body mass index) 
Documented G8417-G8420, G9716, M1276, M1286, 
M1287, M1293, M1296 !'.! 
Not documented G2181, G8421, M1297, M1314® 
Parameters 
Above normal G8417, M1293 Iw 
Below normal G8418, M1287 lffl
Outside normal G8419, G9716, M1276, M1286 x 
Within normal G8420, M1296 ® 
Bowel injury G9628, G9629, G9630 
Breast Mammography 
Digital/digital tomosynthesis (3D) 
Results documented G9899, M1302 ® 
Results not documented G9900, M1285 !'.! 
Breast cancer 
Clinically node negative G9911 
Stage of breast cancer G9831, G9832 
Breastfeeding patient G9779 
Bronchodilator 
Medical reason not prescribed G9696 
Not prescribed, reason NOS G9699 
Prescribed G9695 
System reason not prescribed G9698 
Cancer directed therapy within last 14 days of life 
Not received G9848 
Received G9847 
Cardiac implantable device 
Admitted G9410, G9412 
Not readmitted within 180 days G9411, G9413 
Readmission within 180 days G9410 
Cardiac stress test imaging 
Initial detection and risk assessment 
Higher than low CHO risk G8966 
Low CHO risk G8965 
Performed more than 30 days before surgery G8962 
Performed within 30 days of surgery G8961 
Cardiac tamponade 
Not within 30 days of atrial fibrillation ablation G9409 
Within 30 days of atrial fibrillation ablation G9408 
Cardiovascular prevention services G9662-G9665, 
M1256-M1258, M1364® 
Cataract surgery G9517, G9519, G9520 
Satisfaction with care 
Achieved G0916 
Not achieved G0918 
Visual improvement, not achieved G0915 
CEA (carotid endarterectomy) 
Discharged G8834 
Not discharged G8838 
® New index entry 
91 
Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) 
CHA2DS2-VASc risk score G9931 
Chronic kidney disease stage 5 M1188 
Clinic visit, all-inclusive T1015 
Colitis 
Grade 2 or above M1181 
Preventing eligibility M 1182 
Colonoscopy 
Advanced age G9659, G9660, G9661 
Documentation M127718I 
Screening 
Age 45 to 85 years G2204 
Same physician performed biopsy and pathology 
G9939 
Combination therapy 
Not received G9958 
Not received, medical reason G9957 
Received G9956 
Comfort care only G9930 
Community 
Health integration services G0019, G0022 ® 
Service plan M1317-M1320 ® 
Comprehensive management, advanced illness S0311 
COPD symptoms with spirometry test G8924, M1218 ® 
Coronary artery bypass surgery, minimally invasive S2205, 
S2206, S2207,S2208,S2209 
Corticosteroid 
Not given M1185 
Not prescribed M1184 
Count of previous CT and myocardial perfusion studies 
Documented G9321 
Not documented G9322 
Crisis intervention S9484, S9485 
CT scan 
Dose reduction technique used G9637, G9638 
Current medication 
Documented G8427 
Not documented G8428 
Dementia M1164, M1271 ® 
Depression screening 
Annual screen G0444 
Documented G8431 
Documented as negative G8510 
Documented as positive 
Follow-up not documented G8511 
Not documented 
Reason documented G8433 
Reason not given G8432 
Detachment 
Vitreous M 1337 181 
DEXA,DXA 
Documented G8399 
Not documented G8400 
Within past 2 years G9769 
Dialysis 
Documentation (ESRD) G9231, M1259-M1265, M1269, 
M1273 if_ll 
Diarrhea 
Grade 2 or above M1181 
Dilated macular or retinal exam M1220, M1221 @ 
Not performed, medical reason G9975 
Not performed, patient reason G9892 
Performed G997 4 
Reason NOS G9893 
Discharge, patient M 1009-M 1014 
Follow-up within 30 days after discharge 
Not able to complete with documented reason G9403 
Not received G9404 
Received G9402 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Follow-up within 7 days from discharge 
Not able to complete with documented reason G9406 
Not received G9407 
Received G9405 
Postoperative day #2 
CAS (carotid artery stenting) 
Later than G9254 
No later than G9255 
CEA (carotid endarterectomy) 
Discharged G8834 
Not discharged G8838 
EVAR (endovascular aneurysm repair) 
Discharged G8826 
Not discharged G8833 
Documentation 
Bipolar disorder G9717 
Body temperature G9771-G9773 
Depression G8431-G8433, G8510, G8511 
Follow-up interval G9755 
Imaging G9548 
Medications G8427, G8428, G8430, G9286, G9531, 
G9765, G9775-G9777 
Patient-specific risk G9316, G9317 
Renal disease/transplant G9231, G9722 
Therapy G8450-G8452, G8474, G9940 
Trauma G9531, G9595 
Door to puncture time G9580, G9582 
During performance period 
Urgent care visits only M1021 
Elder maltreatment 
Documented as negative G8734 
Documented as positive G8733 
Follow-up plan not documented 
No reason G8735 
No documentation 
Patient not eligible G8535 
Reason not given G8536 
Elective delivery by C-section 
Not performed G9355 
Performed G9356 
Elevated blood pressure 
Follow up documented G8950, M1278 (NI
Follow up not documented G8952, M1279 ® 
Embolization endpoints 
Documented G9962 
Not documented G9963 
Visits G9521, G9522 
Emergency surgery G9752 
Emergent cases M 1142 
Encephalitis 
Due to 
Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis vaccine M1162 
End of life 
Not offered assistance G9382 
Offered assistance G9380 
Endometrial 
Ablation G9822 
Sampling or hysteroscopy results 
Documented G9823 
Not documented G9824 
Endovascular stroke treatment G9766, G9767 
Episode of care 
Discharge/discontinuation of care M 1009-M 1014 
Documented M1106, M1107, M1111, M1112, M1116, 
M1117, M1121, M1122, M1126, M1127, M1131, 
M1135 
Episode initiated for rehab therapy, medical or 
chiropractic M1143 
92 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Ongoing care not indicated M1108, M1109, M1110, 
M1113, M1114, M1115, M1118, M1119, M1120, 
M1123, M1124, M1125, M1128, M1129, M1130, 
M1132, M1133, M1134 
ESRD (end stage renal disease) documentation G9231, 
M1187 
Evidence based therapy prescribed M1227 'foll 
Exposure to ionizing radiation 
Follow-up recommendations G9345, G9347 
Filter placement G9539, G9540, G9541, G9542, G9543, 
G9544 
Footwear evaluation 
Not an eligible candidate G8416 
Not performed G8415 
Performed G8410 
Frailty, claim/encounter 
Patients age 66 years and older 
Advanced illness diagnosed G2091, G2099, G2101, 
G2107, M1292 ® 
Dementia medication dispensed G2090, G2098, 
G2100, G2106, M1291 ® 
Patients age 66-80 years 
Advanced illness diagnosed G2116, G2126 
Dementia medication dispensed G2115, G2127 
Patients age 81 years and older G2118, G2125 
Functional outcome assessment 
Documented G8542, G9227 
Positive G8539, G8543 
Not documented 
Patient not eligible for G8540 
Reason not given G8541 
Functional status 
Measured G2142-G2145, M1045, M1046 
Not measured M1043, M1049, M1141 
Not performed, reason NOS G9918 
Patient unable to complete/refuses G9726-G9737 
Performed once in last 12 months G9916 
Residual scoring G8647-G8670 
Unable to complete, neck M1149 
Glaucoma 
Plan of care 
Documented M1223 ® 
Not Documented M1222 ® 
Health related social needs screening (HRSNS) 
M1317-M1320 IN) 
HCV (Hepatitis C virus) infection screening 
M1228-M1235 ® 
One time screening 
Not received 
Due to limited life expectancy G9452 
Within 12 months 
Not received 
Medical reason G9384 
Patient reason G9385 
Reason not documented G9386 
Received G9383 
Hemoglobin level M1211, M1212 ® 
Hemorrhage 
Diagnosis 
Vitreous M1328, M1333 ® 
Hepatitis B status G9504 
Hepatocellular cancer screening (HCC) 
Abdominal imaging G9455 
Not performed G9457 
Not ordered or performed 
Medical or patient reason G9456 
Herpes Zoster vaccine M1174 
Not given M1175, M1176, M1238 ® 
Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) 
High risk medication 
At least two different medications from same drug class 
Not ordered G9368, M1209, M1210 
Ordered G9367 
History 
Colectomy or colorectal cancer G9711, M1295 ® 
Hypercholesterolemia, familial or active G9782 
HIV 
Counseling for Prep G0011, G0013 ® 
Injection, Prep G0012@ 
Home care management S0271 
Home health agency (HHA) clinical social worker services 
G0155 
Hospice 
Services of clinical social worker G0155 
Services used during measurement period G9687, 
G9688, G9690-G9694, G9700, G9702, G9707, 
G9709, G9710, G9713-G9714, G9720, G9740, 
G97 41, G9758, G9760, G9761, G9768, G9805, 
G9858-G9861, M1154, M1159, M1165, M1167, 
M1186, M1191, M1275, M1303, M1307, M136511:l
Hospital readmission 
No unplanned G9309 
Unplanned G9310 
Hospital services 
Number of ED or inpatient admissions G9521, G9522 
Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2/neu) 
Positive G9830 
HPV (human papillomavirus) vaccine G9806, G9807 
Did not receive three G9763 
Received three G9762 
Hypertension 
Active diagnosis G9744, M1290 ® 
Follow-up documented G8950, G9745 
Follow-up not documented 
Reason not given G8952 
Hypotony diagnosis M1326 ® 
Illness navigation G0023, G0024, G0140, G0146@ 
Imaging G9549, G9550 
Head (CT or MRI) G9537, M1027-M1029 
Not recommended G9548, G9556 
Recommended G9554 
Immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy M1180, M1183, 
M1185 
lmmunosuppressant not given M1184, M1185 
Induction, medical indication G9361 
Inflammatory bowel disease 
Preventing eligibility M1182 
Influenza vaccination 
Administered G8482, M0201, M1168, M1299, 
M1300 ,fl) 
Not administered G8483, G8484, M1169, M1170, 
M1308 8l 
Institutional special needs plans (SNP) G2081, G2105, 
G9898, G9901, G9910, G9938, M1284 ® 
Intervention, anastomosis leak 
Not required G9305 
Required G9306 
lntraocular 
Injection documentation M1321-M1323 ® 
Pressure documentation M 1224-M 1226 181 
lntraoperative cystoscopy G9606, G9607, G9608 
lntravitreal M1324, M1325 ® 
Itch severity M 1196-M 1198, M 1204-M 1206 
Kidney health evaluation M1189, M1190 
LDL level G9663 
Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) 
Less than or equal to 40% G8451, G8694, G8923, 
G8934, M1150 
® New index entry 
93 
Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) 
Leg pain 
Measured G2140, G2141, G2146, G2147 
Not measured G9949, M1052 
Long-term residential care T2048 
Lymph node biopsy 
Not performed G8880 
Reason not documented G8882 
Performed G8878 
Mastectomy G9708, M1280 ® 
Medical visit 
1 medical visiU6 month period 
Had visit G9247 
No visit G9246 
Hospital outpatient clinic visit G0463 
Medication list updated or reviewed 
Documented G8427 
Not documented G8428, G8430 
Meningococcal vaccine dose G9414, G9415, M1160 
Metastatic disease G9838, G9842 
Mitotic rate and other tumor information 
Patient category included G9428 
Patient category not included G9431 
Medical reason G9429 
MMR testing M1193-M1195 
MRS score G0045, G0046, G9646, G9648, M1236 INJ 
Multimodal pain management 
Not used G2150 
Medical reason for not using documented G2149 
Used G2148 
Nerve block, peripheral (PNB) G9770 
Neurological examination, lower extremity G8404, G8405 
Non-small-cell lung cancer 
Classification documented in resection report G9422 
Classification not documented in resection report G9425 
Medical reason G9423 
Specimen site, other than lung 
Not non-small-cell lung cancer G9424 
Not primary non-small-cell lung cancer G9420 
Nutrition therapy G0270, G0271 
Ongoing care not indicated or possible M1146-M1148 
Opioid use disorders M 1032-M 1036 
Osteoporosis M1153 
Therapy not prescribed G8635 
Otology 
Patient 
Not eligible for referral G8857 
Referral 
Not performed G8858 
Performed G8856 
Outpatient service G0137
18) 
Palliative care G0031, G0034, G0048, G9988, 
G9992-G9996, M1309, M1365 IN) 
Partial hospitalization services S0201 
Patient activation measure (PAM) M 1343-M 1349 18) 
Patient care survey M1251-M1254 ® 
Patient death G9751, G9812, G9846, G9859, M1342, 
M1356, M1362 ® 
Patient decision making 
Documented G9296 
Not documented G9297 
Patient diagnosed 
Cancer, active or history, M1018 
Degenerative neurological condition G2151 
Lumbar spine condition M1041, M1051 
Sterile, female M1016 
With competing URI diagnosis G8709 
Patient health questionnaire 
PHQ-9 G9509, G9510, G9511 
Responses M1239-M1250@ 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Patient referral other provider/specialist 
Referred G9968 
Referred/report not received G9970 
Referred/report received G9969 
Patient refused to participate G2022, G9726, G9728, 
G9730,G9732,G9734,G9736 
Patient survey 
Care survey G0917, M1239-M1250, M1251-M1254 ® 
Score G9603, G9604, G9605 @ 
Patient survival G9787, G9813 
Patient-specific risk assessment G9316, G9317 
Patient treatmenUfinal evaluation complete M1009-M1014, 
M1327, M1336 ® 
Follow up M1330-M1332, M1335 ® 
Patient unable to report G9727, G9729, G9731, G9733, 
G9735, G9737 
PDC G9512, G9513 
Performance met 
Residual change score 
Equal or greater than zero G2152 
Less than zero G2167 
Pharmacological therapy M 1032-M 1036 
Not prescribed G8635 
Prescribed G8633 
Physical examination 
Preventive G0402 
Pneumococcal vaccine M0201, M1155, M1177-M1179, 
M1304-M1306 ® 
Positive airway pressure therapy 
Objective measurement G8851 
Not performed G8855 
Reason given G8854 
Postoperative 
Encounter 
Eye M1329, M133418) 
Postpartum 
Evaluation/screening not performed G9358 
Evaluation/screening performed G9357 
Prednisone G2112, G2113 
Pregnancy 
Documentation M1298 ® 
Incidental M1255 ll!II 
Transabdominal/transvaginal ultrasound G8806 
Preoperative no smoking instructions given G9497 
Primary non-small cell lung cancer 
Classification documented G9418 
Classification not documented G9421 
Medical reason G9419 
Prolonged intubation 
Not required G8570 
Required G8569 
Prostate cancer recurrence risk G8465, G9706 
Psoriasis G9649, G9651, G9764 
Psychosis, depression, anxiety, apathy 
Assessed G2121 
Not assessed G2122 
Psychotherapy G0017, G0018, G0410, G0411 ® 
Pulmonary nodule, incidental G9754 
Radiation exposure G9500, G9501 
Reexploration, postoperative mediastinal bleeding 
Not required G8578 
Required G8577 
Renal failure/dialysis 
Development postoperatively G8575 
No development postoperatively G8576 
Renal lesion G9547 
Renal transplant documentation G9231 
Respiratory disturbance or event index 
94 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Measured G8842 
Not measured 
Reason documented G8843 
Reason not documented G8844 
Retina 
Dilated exam performed G8397, M1220, M1221 ® 
Return to the operating room G9514, G9515, G9516, 
G9517 
No return G9307 
Unplanned return G9308 
Within 90 days G9514, G9515, G9516, G9517 
Rhabdomyolysis dx G9780 
Rheumatoid arthritis assessment M1006-M1008 
Risk factor evaluation (venous thromboembolic and 
cardiovascular) 
Evaluated G9298, M1258, M1364 ® 
Not evaluated G9299, M1257181 
RRT received M1199 
Safety concern 
Negative G9923 
No screen, reason NOS G9925 
Positive with recommendations G9922 
Positive w/o recommendations G9926 
Screening 
Colorectal M1277, M1315 1t}) 
Examinations G0101, G0102, G0105, G0106, G0108, 
G0120-G0122 
Social determinants of health GO 136, M 1207, M 1208, 
M1317-M1320 rfc!i 
Negative G9920 
Not performed G9921, M1237@ 
Partial G9921 
Positive no recommendations G9921 
Positive with recommendations G9919 
Sexually transmitted disease 
Not screened 
Reason not given G9230 
Screened 
Results documented G9228 
Sinusitis 
Due to bacterial infection G9364 
Skilled nursing facility 
Admission M1266, M1273, M1274 ® 
Social work and psychological services G0409 
Specialty Set G0060-G0067, G4000-G4038 
Specimen site, other than 
Cutaneous location G9430 
Esophagus G8797 
Prostate G8798 
Spine 
Lumbar 
Acute Fracture G9945, M1041, M1051 
Cancer G9945, M1041, M1051 
Infection G9945, M1041, M1051 
Scoliosis G9945, M1041, M1051 
Spirometry 
Documented G8924, M1213-M1217 HJ 
Squamous cell carcinoma 
Esophagus M1192 
Slatin 
Not prescribed, medical reasons G9781, G9940 
Therapy G9796, G9797 
Substance abuse G9518 
Suicide 
Ideation M1352, M1358, M1359, M1360 ® 
Reduction M 1357 IN, 
Risk M1355, M1361 tNJ 
Safety plan 
Meropenem - Methylene blue 
Initiated M1350, M1351 ® 
Not initiated M1353, M1354 II'!> 
Surgical, silicone oil G9756, G9757 
Surgical site infection G9311, G9312 
Systemic antimicrobials 
Not prescribed G9959 
Prescribed G9961 
Prescribed, medical reasons documented G9960 
TB screen M 1 003-M 1 005 
Tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis vaccine (Tdap) M1171 
No vaccine G9417, M1172, M1173 
One vaccine G9416 
Reaction M1161, M1162 
Thyroid nodule G9552, G9555 
Tobacco cessation intervention 
Identified user G9906, M 1283, M 1301, M 1310 ® 
Not provided, reason not given G9908, M1289, 
M1313® 
Tobacco use G9642, G9643, G9644, G9645, G9791, 
G9792 
Current nonuser G9459 
Tobacco cessation intervention 
Not performed G9460, M1289, M1313 ® 
Received G9458, M1283, M1301, M1310@ 
Tobacco user screen 
Not screened, reason not given G9905, M1312, 
M1313 8l 
Screen Identified Non-user G9903, M1282 ® 
Screen Identified User G9902, M1289 ® 
tPA G8600, G8601, G8602 
Transplant 
Waitlist M1259-M1261, M1267, M1268, M1270, 
M1272 ® 
Ultrasound, transabdominal or transvaginal 
Not performed, no reason given G8808 
Not performed, reason documented G8807 
Value pathways G0053-G0059, M0001-M0005, 
M 1366-M 1370 ® 
Viral load G9242, G9243 
Visual function 
Achieved G0913 
Not achieved G0915 
Vomiting 
Post-operative G9954 
Wellness visit 
Initial G0438 
Subsequent G0439 
Meropenem J2184, J2185 
Meropenem and vaborbactam J2186 
Mesh (implantable) C1781 
Mesna, injection J9209 
Metacarpophalangeal joint, prosthetic implant L8630, 
L8631 
Metaproterenol sulfate, inhalation solution 
Concentrated J7667, J7668 
Unlt doseJ7669,J7670 
Metaraminol bitartrate, injection J0380 
Metastatic disease G9838, G9842 
Metatarsal joint, prosthetic implant L8641 
Meter, bath conductivity, dialysis E1550 
Methacholine chloride J767 4 
Methadone J1230 
Oral S0109 
Take home supply G2078 
Methocarbamol, injection J2800 
Methotrexate J9250, J9260 
Oral J8610 
Methyldopate HCI, injection J0210 
Methylene blue Q9968 
® New index entry 
95 
Methylergonovine maleate - Nelarabine, injection 
Methylergonovine maleate J2210 
Methylnaltrexone, injection J2212 
Methylprednisolone 
Acetate, injection 
20 mg J1020 
40 mg J1030 
80 mg J1040 
Oral J7509 
Sodium succinate J2920, J2930 
Metoclopramide HCI, injection J2765 
Micafungin sodium J2247, J2248 
Microcapillary 
Sealant A4652 
Tube A4651 
Microinfusion, transcatheter intraoperative blood vessel 
C9759 
Midazolam HCI J2250, J2251 
Mifepristone, oral S0190 
Mileage, ambulance A0021, A0380, A0390, A0425, A0434, 
A0435, A0888 
Milrinone lactate J2260 
Mini-bus, nonemergency transportation A0120 
Minocycline hydrochloride J2265 
Minoxidil S0139 
Miscellaneous therapeutic items and supplies T1999 
Misoprostol, oral S0191 
Mitomycin J7315, J9280, J9281 
Mitoxantrone HCI J9293 
Mitral Stenosis G0044, G9746 
Mlg-Complete Q4256 
MMR testing M1193-M1195 
Mobility, see a/so Wheelchair 
Device, power operated K0800-K0812, K0899 
Resource-inten svc during office visit G0501 
Model participant refuses service G2022 
Moderate sedation endo serv >5yrs G0500 
Mogamulizumab-kpkc J9204 
Moisture exchanger, mechanical ventilation A4483 
Moisturizer, skin A6250 
Molecular pathology G0452 
Monitor A9279 
Blood glucose E0607, E2100, E2101-E2103, S1030, S1031 
Blood pressure A4670 
Cardiac C1833 
Pacemaker E0610, E0615 
Ultrafiltration S9007 
Uterine S9001 
Monitoring feature/device A9279 
Morcellator C1782 
Morphine sulfate J2270, J2272, S0093 
Epidural or intrathecal use J227 4 
Mouthpiece (for respiratory equipment) A4617 
Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk J9313 
Moxifloxacin, injection J2280, J2281 
MRCP (magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography) 
S8037 
MRS score G0045, G0046, G9646, G9648, M1236 1f 
Muscoadhesive, oral A9156 <N> 
Mucoprotein, blood P2038 
Mucus trap S8210 
Multiaxial ankle prothesis L5986 
Multidisciplinary services H2000-H2001, T1025, T1026 
Multiple post collar, cervical L0180-L0200 
Multi Podus® type AFO L4396
Muromonab-CD3 J7505 
MVASI™ Q5107
Mycophenolate mofetil J7517 
Mycophenolic acid J7518 
MyOwn Skin TM 04226 
Myringotomy, laser-assisted S2225 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Nabilone J8650 
Nafcillin sodium S0032 
Nail trimming S0390 
Dystrophic G0127 
Nalbuphine HCI, Injection J2300 
Naloxone HCI G1028, J2310, J2311 
Naltrexone J2315 
Nandrolone decanoate J2320 
Narrowing device, wheelchair E0969 
Nasal 
Application device A7034 
Cream as allergen filter A7023 ® 
Endoscopy, postop debridement S2342 
Pillows/seals (for nasal application device) A7035 
Vaccine inhalation J3530 
Nasogastric tubing B4081, B4082 
Natalizumab J2323 
National committee for quality assurance G9148, G9149, 
G9150 
Nebulizer 
Aerosol 
Compressor E0572 
Filter A7013, A7014 
MaskA7015 
Bottle, glass or autoclavable plastic A7017, E0580 
Heater E1372 
Interface 
Cough stimulating device A7020 
Large volume E0575 
Prefilled A7008 
Reservoir bottle A7009 
Tubing A7010 
Unfilled A7007 
Water 
Collection device A7012 
Distilled A7018 
Oscillation system, high frequency, chest wall A7025, 
A7026 
Pneumatic 
Administration setA7003, A7005, A7006 
Nonfiltered A7004 
Reusable A7017 
Small volume A7004, E0574 
Administration setA7003, A7005, A7006 
Mouthpiece A7016 
Tubing 
Corrugated A7010 
Ultrasonic 
Dome and mouthpiece A7016 
Electronic E057 4 
Large volume E0575 
Reservoir bottle A7009 
Small volume E0574 
With compressor/heater E0570, E0575, E0585 
Necitumumab, injection J9295 
Needle A4215 
Biopsy, prostate, pathology G0416 
Brachytherapy C1715 
Cryoablation C2618 
Noncoring A4212 
Power bone marrow biopsy C1830 
With syringe A4206-A4209 
Negative pressure wound therapy pump E2402 
Accessories A6550 
Nelarabine, injection J9261 
96 
18) New index entry
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Neonatal transport, ambulance, base rate A0225 
Neopatch ™ 04176 
Neostigmine methylsulfate, injection J271 O 
Neox® 04148, 04156 
Nerve stimulator A4540-A4542, A4560, E0733-E0735, 
E0765 ifll 
Nesiritide injection J2325 
Netupitant and palonosetron J8655 
Neurological examination G8404, G8405 
Neuroma 
Excision C7551 
Neuromuscular 
Not performed G2179 
Stimulation E0764, L8680 
Stimulator E07 45 
Neurostimulator A4540-A4542, A4560, E0733-E0735, 
E0765® 
Battery recharging system 
Replacement only L8695 
Generator, nonrechargeable C1767, C1823, C1825, 
C1827 
With rechargeable battery and charging system C 1820, 
C1822, C1826 
Implantable L8679-L8689 
Lead (implantable) C1778 
Test kit C1897 
Oral device E0490-E0493 1B 
Patient programmer C 1787 
Pulse generator replacement L8681 
Receiver and/or transmitter C1816, L8682, L8683, L8684 
Supplies L8678 ®' 
Nicotine patches S4990, S4991 
Nitrogen N-13 ammonia, diagnostic A9526 
Nivestym ™ 05110 
Nivolumab J9298, J9299 
Nonchemotherapy drug, not otherwise specified (NOS) 
J8499 
Noncovered 
Item or services A9270 
Procedure G0293, G0294 
Nonemergency transportation A0080-A0210 
Nonimpregnated gauze dressing A6216-A6221, 
A6402-A6404 
Nonprescription drug A9150 
Non small cell lung cancer G9282-G9291 
Not medically necessary service S9986 
Not otherwise classified (NOC) drug J3490, J7599, J7699, 
J7799,J9999,O0181 
N ovachor 04194 
Novafix TM 04208, 04254 
NPH insulin J1815 
NTIOL (new technology intraocular lens) 
Category 4 Q1004 
Category 5 01005 
Nursing services T1000-T1005 
In home care by 
RN T1030 
LPN T1031 
Visit S0274 
NuShield® Q4160 
Nusinersen injection J2326 
Nutrition 
Enteral infusion pump B9002 
Parenteral infusion pump B9004, B9006 
Parenteral solution B4164-B5200 
Therapy G0270, G0271 
Neonatal transport - Orthotic additions 
O&P (orthotics and prosthetics) L0112-L9900 
Component L9900 
Obizur® J7188 
Observation service G0378, G0379 
Obstetrics services S4005-S4989 
Occipital/mandibular support, cervical L0160 
Occlusive device placement G0269 
Ocrelizumab injection J2350 
Ocriplasmin J7316 
Octafluoropropane 09956 
Octagam® J1568 
Octreotide acetate J2353, J2354 
Ocular 
Device, intraoperative, detached retina C1784 
Implant, aqueous drainage assist device C 1783 
Prosthetic implant L8610 
Ocularist evaluation S9150 
Ofatumumab, injection J9302 
Ofloxacin S0034 
Ointment, skin A6250 
Olanzapine, injection J2358 
Olaratumab injection J9285 
Omacetaxine mepesuccinate J9262 
Omadacycline J0121 
Omalizumab J2357 
Omegavan B4187 
Omnicardiogram/cardiointegram S9025 
Onabotulinumtoxin A J0585 
Onasemnogene abeparvovec-xioi J3399 
Oncology 
Demonstration projects G9050-G9139 
Model M0010 ® 
Ondansetron J2405 
Oral 00162, S0119 
One arm drive attachment, manual wheelchair E0958 
Ophthalmologic evaluation S0620, S0621 
CMMI Model G9868, G9869, G9870 
Opioid Use Disorder 
Evaluation and Treatment G2076-G2080 
Treatment (Office Based) G2086-G2088 
Oprelvekin, injection J2355 
Oral 
Device/appliance E0485, E0486, K1027 
Interface for suction pump A7047 
Neurostimulator E0940-E0493 IN 
Oral/nasal mask A 7027 
Oral cushion A7028 
Pillows, replacement pair A7029 
Oritavancin J2406, J2407 
Oropharyngeal suction catheter A4628 
Orphenadrine citrate, injection J2360 
Orthopedic shoes 
Arch support L3040-L3090 
FootwearL3201-L3265 
Insert L3000-L3030 
Lift L3300-L3334 
Miscellaneous additions L3500-L3595, L3649 
Positioning device L3100-L3170 
Transfer L3600-L3649 
Wedge L3340-L3420 
Orthotic additions 
Carbon/graphite lamination L2755 
Fracture 
Lower extremity L2180-L2192 
Upper extremity L3980-L3999, L3995 
 New index entry 
97 
Orthotic devices - Pacemaker 
Halo L0859 
Joint 
Extremity 
Lower L2200-L2999 
Upper L3956, L3995 
Knee L2405-L2492, L5615 <f.l> 
Lower extremity K0672, L2180-L2397, L2500-L2999, 
L5926, L5991 11!1> 
Pad, abdominal for TLSO L 1270 
Ratchet lock L2430 
Scoliosis L 1010-L 1120, L 1210-L 1290 
Shoe L3000-L3031, L3500-L3595 
Spinal L0970-L0999 
Orthotic devices, see also Orthopedic shoes 
Ankle-foot (AFO) E1815, E1816, E1830, L 1900-L 1990, 
L2106-L2116, L3160, L4361 
Anterior-posterior-lateral L0700, L0710 
Cervical L0120-L0200 
Cranial S1040 
Cranial-cervical L0112, L0113 
Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral (CTLSO) L0700, L0710 
Elbow (EO) E1800, E1801, L3702-L3762 
Elbow-wrist-hand-finger (EWHFO) L3763-L3766 
Finger E1825, L3925, L3927, L3933, L3935 
Foot L3040-L3170 
Forearm E1802, E1818 
Fracture L2106-L2136, L3917, L3980-L3999 
Halo L0810-L0861 
Hand L3917-L3919 
Hand-finger L3912, L3913, L3921, L3923, L3924, L3929, 
L3930 
Hip (HO) L 1600-L 1690 
Hip-knee-ankle-foot (HKAFO) L2040-L2090 
Interface material, replacement E 1820 
Knee (KO) L 1810-L 1860 
Knee-ankle-foot (KAFO) L2000-L2038, L2126-L2136 
Legg Perthes L 1700-L 1755 
Lower extremity L4350-L4631 
Lumbar L0625-L0627, L0641, L0642 
Lumber-Sacral L0628-L0640, L0643-L0651 
Multiple post collar, cervical LO 180-L0200 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) L0999, L 1499, L2999, 
L3999, L5999,L7499,L8039 
Pneumatic splint L4350-L4370 
Pronation/supination E 1818 
Repair or replacement L4000-L4210 
Replacement, soft interface material E1820, E1821, L4392, 
L4394 
Sacral L0621-L0624 
Scoliosis L 1000-L 1120, L 1300-L 1499 
Shoulder (SO) E1840, E1841, L3650-L3678 
Shoulder-elbow-wrist-hand (SEWHO) L3960-L3978 
Side bar disconnect L2768 
Spinal, cervical L0120-L0200 
Thoracic-lumbar-sacral (TLSO) L0220, L0450-L0492, 
L0970-L0999, L1200-L1290 
Toe E1830, E1831 
Upper extremity L3980-L3999 
Wrist-hand L3905-L3908, L3915, L3916 
Wrist-hand-finger (WHFO) E1805, E1806, E1825, 
L3806-L3904, L3931 
Orthotic and prosthetic services L8690-L9900 
Orthovisc® J7324 
Ossicular prosthetic implant L8613 
Osteogenesis stimulator E0747-E0749, E0760 
Osteotomy, periacetabular S2115 
Ostomy, pouches and supplies A4361-A4437, A5051-A5093 
Adhesive A4364 
Belt A4367, A4396 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Clamp A4363 
Cleaner, appliance A5131 
Deodorant A4394,A4395 
Faceplate A4361, A4384 
Filter A4368 
Insert, convex A5093 
Irrigation supplies A4436, A4437, A4398-A4400 
Lubricant A4402 
Miscellaneous supplies A4335, A4421 
Pouches A4375-A4383, A4387-A4393, A4412, A4413, 
A4416-A4420, A4423-A4435, A5051-A5054, 
A5056-A5073 
Ring A4404 
Sheet, absorbent A4422 
Skin barrier A4362, A4369-A4373, A4385, A4405-A4411, 
A4414,A4415 
Stoma 
Cap A5055 
Catheter A5082 
Cover, absorptive A5083 
Plug A5081 
Vent A4366 
Otologic evaluation/active drainage G8559-G8568 
Outpatient services C1052-C9899, G0137 1n 
Oxacillin sodium, injection J2700 
Oxaliplatin, injection J9263 
Oximeter device A4606, E0445 
Oxygen 
Ambulance supply A0422 
Battery charger E 1357 
Battery pack/cartridge E1356 
Chamber, hyperbaric, topical A4575 
Concentrator E1390, E1391, E1392 
Contents E0441-E0444, S8120, S8121 
DC power adapter E 1358 
Delivery systems and supplies E0424-E0487, E 1352-E 1406 
Topical E0446 
Gaseous oxygen system E0424-E0431 
Liquid oxygen system E0433-E0440 
Mask A4620 
Portable E0447, K0738 
Probe A4606 
Rack/stand E1355 
Regulator E1352, E1353 
Respiratory equipment/supplies A4611-A4627, 
E0424-E0487 
Tent E0455 
Topical delivery system E0446 
Tubing, per foot A4616 
Water vapor enriching system E1405, E1406 
Wheeled cart E1354 
Oxymorphone HCI, injection J241 0 
Oxytetracycline HCI, injection J2460 
Oxytocin, injection J2590 
Pacemaker 
Insertion or replacement C7537-C7539 
Lead 
Combination (implantable) C 1899 
Other C1898 
Transvenous VDD C1779 
Monitor 
Audible and visible check systems E061 0 
Digital/visible check systems E0615 
Non-rate-responsive (implantable) 
Dual chamber C2619 
Single chamber C2620 
98 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Other than single or dual chamber (implantable) C2621 
Rate-responsive (implantable) 
Dual chamber C1785 
Single chamber C1786 
Removal C7540 
Packing strips A6407 
Paclitaxel J9267 
Protein-bound particles J9264 
Pad 
Cold,.fluid circulating with pump E0218 
Crutch, replacement A4635 
Eye A6410, A6411 
Gel pressure E0185, E0196 
Heat 
Electric E0210, E0215 
Replacement A4639, E0249 
Pressure A4640 
Water circulating with pump E0217 
Orthotic device interface E1820 
Sheepskin E0188, E0189 
Pail or pan, for use with commode chair E0167 
Pain management 
Chronic G3002, G3003 
Palifermin, injection J2425 
Paliperidone palmitate, injection J2426 
Palliative care G0031, G0034, G0048, G9988, G9992-G9996, 
M1309, M1365@ 
Palonosetron HCI, injection J2469 
Pamidronate disodium, injection J2430 
Pancreas device system, artificial S1034 
Supplies S 1035-S 1037 
Panitumumab, injection J9303 
Pantoprazole sodium S0164 
Papanicolaou (Pap) screening smear P3000, P3001, 00091 
Papaverine HC, injection J2440 
Paraffin 
Bath unit E0235 
Per pound A4265 
Paramedic intercept A0432, S0207, S0208 
Parenteral nutrition B4164-B5200 
Additives B4216 
Administration kit B4224 
Infusion pump 
Enteral nutrition, any type B9002 
Portable B9004 
Stationary B9006 
Solution and supplies B4164-B4199, B5000-B5200 
Amino acid 
3.5% B4168 
5.5% through 7% B4172 
7% through 8.5% B4176 
Greater than 8.5% B4178 
Carbohydrates 
50% or less B4164 
Greater than 50% B4180 
Compounded amino acid and carbohydrates 
10 to 51 grams B4189 
52 to 73 grams B4193 
74 to 100 grams B4197 
Hepatic B5100 
Renal B5000 
Stress B5200 
Lipids, NOS B4185 
Omegaven B4187 
Supplies, not otherwise classified (NOC) B9999 
Supply kit 
Home mix, per day B4222 
Premix, per day B4220 
Paricalcitol, injection J2501 
Packing strips - Pentamidine isethionate 
Parking fee, nonemergency transport A0170 
Partial hospitalization services S0201 
Pasireotide J2502 
Paste 
Conductive A4558 
Coupling A4559 
Patch, eye A6412 
Pathology and laboratory 
Report M 1166 
Services P2028-P9615 
Tests, miscellaneous P901 0-P9615 
Patient 
Already receiving therapy G0040 
Dialysis G0052 
Died M1060 
Education 
Back school S9117 
Classes S9436-S9454 
Face-to-face for CKD G0420,G0421 
Hospice care G0051, M1059, M1067, M1154, M1159, 
M1165, M1167, M1186, M1191, M1275, M1307, M1365il'l 
Months G1025, G1026, G1027 
Not ambulatory G9719, G9721, M1068 
Not eligible for exam G2178, G2180 
Nursing home resident M1058 
Support system E0636 
Survey G0917, G9603, G9604, G9605 
Transfer system E1035, E1036 
Unable to bear children M1016 
With 
Catheter and limited life expectancy G0050 
Heart valve prothesis G0043 
Maintenance hemodialysis G0049 
Mitra! stenosis G0044 
Trauma 
Head G0047 
Patisiran injection J0222 
PDC G9512, G9513 
PEFR (peak expiratory flow rate) 
Meter A4614, S8096 
Physician services S8110 
Pegademase bovine, injection J2504 
Pegaptanib, injection J2503 
Pegaspargase, injection J9266 
Pegfilgrastim, injection 05108, 05111, 05120, 05122 
Peginesatide, injection J0890 
Pegloticase, injection J2507 
Pegylated interferon alfa-2a S0145 
Pegylated interferon alfa-2b S0148 
Pelvic 
Belt/harness/boot E0944 
Bone fracture treatment G0412, G0413, G0414, G0415 
Floor, electrical stimulator E07 40 
Pembrolizumab J9271 
Pemetrexed, injection J9304, J9305 
Penicillin G 
Benzathine J0561 
Benzathine and procaine J0558 
Potassium J2540 
Procaine, aqueous J2510 
Penile 
Prosthesis 
Inflatable C1813 
Noninflatable C2622 
Wrap T4545 
Pentamidine isethionate 
Inhalation solution J2545, J7676 
Injection S0080 
® New index entry 
99 
Pentastarch - Positive airway pressure device 
Pentastarch, 10% solution, injection J2513 
Pentazocine HCI, injection J3070 
Pentobarbital sodium, injection J2515 
Pentostatin, injection J9268 
Peramivir J2547 
Percussor, electric or pneumatic E0480 
Percutaneous 
Access system A4301 
Transluminal 
Coronary atherectomy 
Each additional branch C9603 
Single major coronary artery C9602 
Revascularization 
Acute occlusion, single vessel C9606 
Chronic total occlusion, single vessel C9607 
Each additional coronary artery or branch C9608 
Each additional branch C9605 
Single vessel C9604 
Perflexane lipid microspheres, injection 09955 
Perflutren lipid microspheres, injection 09957 
Permacol C9364 
Peroneal strap L0980 
Peroxide or alcohol A4244 
Perphenazine 
Injection J3310 
Oral 00175 
Personal care 
Item, not otherwise specified (NOS) S5199 
Services T1019, T1020, T1021 
Pertuzumab, injection J9306, J9316 
Pessary 
Nonrubber A4562 
RubberA4561 
Pharmacotherapy M1032-M1036 
Pharmacy fees 00510-00518 ® 
PET scan G0219, G0235, G0252, S8085 
Phenobarbital sodium, injection J2560 
Phentolamine mesylate, injection J2760 
Phenylephrine and ketorolac J1097 
Phenytoin sodium, injection J1165 
pHisoHex® solution A4246 
Photofrin® (porfimer sodium) J9600 
Phototherapy light E0202 
PHQ-9 (patient health questionnaire 9) score G9393, 
G9395, G9396, G9509, G9510, G9511 
Physical 
Examination 
Preventive G0402 
School, college S0622 
Therapy 
In home S9131 
Maintenance S8990 
Physician 
Certification/recertification G0179, G0180 
Service for a power mobility device G0372 
Supervision G0181, G0182 
Phytonadione J3430 
Pinworm examination 00113 
Piperacillin sodium S0081 
Piperacillin sodium/tazobactam sodium J2543 
Placement 
Applicator into breast C9726 
Endorectal intracavitary applicator C9725 
Implants, soft palate C9727 
Interstitial devices for radiotherapy C9728 
lntracoronary stent, drug eluting 
Each additional branch C9601 
Single major coronary artery or branch C9600 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Plasma 
Between 8-24 hours of collection P9059 
COVID-19 convalescent C9507 
Cryoprecipitate P9025, P9026 
Donor retested P9060 
Fibrin sealant, human C9250 
Multiple donor, pooled, frozen P9023, P9070, P9071 
Single donor, frozen within 8 hours of collection P9017 
Plasminogen, Human-Tvmh J2998 
Plastazote L3002, L3252, L3253, L3265, L5654-L5658 
Platelets 
Concentrated, each unit P9019 
Irradiated P9032 
Leukocytes reduced, irradiated P9033 
Pheresis P9034 
Irradiated P9036 
Leukocytes reduced P9035 
Leukocytes reduced, irradiated P9037 
Pathogen-reduced P9073 
Pathogen(s) test P9100 
Rich plasma, each unit G0465, P9020 
Platform attachment 
Forearm crutch E0153 
Walker E0154 
Plazomicin injection J0291 
Plerixafor J2562 
Plicamycin J9270 
Plumbing, for home ESRD equipment A4870 
Pneumatic 
Appliance E0655-E0673, L4350-L4370 
Compressor, compression device E0650-E0652, E0675 
Nebulizer, small volume 
Administration set 
Filtered A7006 
Nonfiltered A7003, A7005 
Disposable A7004 
Splint L4370 
Ventricular assist device 00477, 00480-00506 
Pneumatic nebulizer, small volume 
Administration set 
Filtered A7006 
Nonfiltered A7003, A7005 
Nonfiltered, disposable A7004 
Pneumocystis jiroveci G9223 
Pneumococcal 
Screening G9279 
Vaccine G9990, G9991, M0201, M1155, M1177-M1179, 
M1304-M1306 iN> 
Polatuzumab vedotin-piiq J9309 
Pole, IV E0776 
Polycyte rM 04241 
Porcine implant C9364 
Porfimer, injection J9600 
Port, indwelling C1788 
Portable 
Hemodialyzer system E1635 
Liquid oxygen system E0433 
X-ray equipment 00092 
X-ray equipment transfer R0070-R0076
Positioning 
Cushion/pillow/wedge E0190 
Device 
Foot L3161 lfli 
SeatT5001 
Positive airway pressure device, accessories 
Cannula, nasal 
Interface A7034 
PillowA7033 
100 
Nl New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Chin strap A7036 
Continuous E0601 
Exhalation port A7045 
Filter 
Disposable A7038 
Non disposable A7039 
Head gear A7035 
Humidifier E0561, E0562 
Water chamber A7046 
Mask A7027, A7030 
Cushion A7028, A7032 
Interface A7031, A7034 
PillowA7029 
Oral interface A7044 
Tubing A4604, A7037 
Positive 
Airway pressure 
Device, intermittent E0500 
Therapy G8850 
Expiratory pressure device 
Oscillatory E0484 
Resistance valve A7049@ 
Post-coital examination Q0115 
Postural drainage board E0606 
Potassium 
Chloride J3480 
Hydroxide (KOH) preparation Q0112 
Pouch 
Fecal collection A4330 
Ostomy A4375-A4383, A4387-A4393, A4412, A4413, 
A4416-A4420, A4423-A4435, A5051-A5054, 
A5056-A5073 
Urinary A4379-A4383, A5071-A5073 
WoundA6154 
Power operated vehicles K0800-K0812 
Pralatrexate J9307 
Pralidoxime chloride J2730 
Pre-admission screening T2010, T2011 
Predictive model 
Cardiac C9793 ® 
Prednisolone 
Acetate J2650 
Oral J7510 
Prednisone G2112, G2113, J7512 
Prefabricated splint 
Digit S8450 
Elbow S8452 
Wrist or ankle S8451 
Pregnancy 
Documentation G9997, M1298@ 
Home management S9208-S9214 
Prehensile actuator L7040 
Prenatal care services H1000- H1005 
Home delivery, supplies S8415 
Preparatory prosthesis L551 0-L5595 
Prescription, see also Appendix A: Table of Drugs and 
Biologicals 
Chemotherapeutic, not otherwise specified (NOS) J8999 
Nonchemotherapeutic, not otherwise specified (NOS) J8499 
Ordered G0032, G0033 
Pressure 
Alarm, dialysis E1540 
Mattress, pads, and other supplies A4640, E0181-E0199 
Pump for pressure pad E0182 
Sensor 
Pulmonary artery, implantable wireless C2624 
Preventive 
Activities 
Developmental delay H2037 
Services 
Prolonged G0513, G0514 
Privigen® J 1459 
Probe 
Cryoablation C2618 
Oxygen A4606 
Positive - Prosthesis 
Percutaneous lumbar discectomy C2614 
Robotic, water-jet C2596 
Procainamide HCI J2690 
Procarbazine hydrochloride, oral S0182 
Procenta® Q4244 
Prochlorperazine J0780 
Maleate Q0164 
Non- Medicare S0183 
Proctoscopy, screening S0601 
Procuren® or similar product S9055 
ProgenaMatrix ™ Q4222 
Progestasert® IUD S4989 
Progesterone, injection J2675 
Prolonged 
Home or residence E/M G0318 
Hospital inpatient or observation care E/M G0316 
Nursing facility E/M G0317 
Preventive services G0513, G0514 
Prolotherapy M0076 
Promazine HCI J2950 
Promethazine and meperidine J2180 
Promethazine HCI 
Injection J2550 
Oral Q0169 
Propofol J2704 
Propranolol HCI J 1800 
Prostate, risk of recurrence G8465 
Prosthesis 
Actuator 
Prehensile L7040 
Additions 
Lower extremity L561 0-L5699, L571 0-L5966, L5991 ® 
Upper extremity L6600-L7259, L7400-L7499, 
L6600-L6698, L6890, L6895 
Ankle L5050, L5060 
Artificial larynx battery/accessory L8505 
Batteries L7360-L7368 
Breast C1789, L8000-L8039, L8600 
Device, impatient only C9899 
Donning sleeve L7600 
Ear L8613-L8629 
Elbow 
Electronic L7170-L7259 
Eye L8608-L8612, V2623-V2629 
Facial/external ear L8040-L8049 
Fitting L5400-L5460, L6380-L6388 
FooUankle L5000-L5020, L5968-L5999, L8641, L8642 
Hand/wrist L6000-L6026, L6050-L6055, L6900-L6915, 
L8630-L8659 
Electric L7007, L7008 
Gasket or seal L7700 
Heart valve G0043 
Hip L5250, L5270, L5795 
Hook, electric L7009, L7045 
Implants L8600-L8690 
Iris C1839 
Knee 
Above L5200-L5230, L5505 
Below L5100-L5105, L5500 
Disarticulation L5150-L5160 
Larynx L8500 
Lower extremity L5280-L5341 , L5400-L5460, L5700-L5999, 
L8641, L8642 
@ New index entry 
101 
Protamine sulfate - Red congo, blood 
Maxillofacial, provided by a nonphysician L8040-L8048 
Miscellaneous services/supplies L8499, L8690-L9900 
Nipple L8032, L8033 
Penile C1813, C2622, L7900, L7902 
Preparatory L5510-L5600, L6580-L6590 
Protective covers L5704-L5707 
Repair L7510, L7520, L8049 
Replacement socket L5700-L5703, L6883-L6885 
Services, unlisted L8499, L8690-L9900 
Shoulder L6300-L6320 
Socket 
Elbow L6200, L6205 
Lower extremities L5618-L5628 
Replacement L5700-L5703, L6883-L6885 
Shoulder L6300, L6885 
Thoracic L6570 
Upper extremities L6400-L6570, L6883-L6885 
Various L5629-L5653, L5654-L5699 
Socks (shrinker, sheath, stump sock) L8400-L8485 
Terminal device L6703-L6882 
Trachea-esophageal L8507, L8509 
Upper extremity L6000-L6570, L6920-L6975, L7170-L 7259, 
L7499, L8701, L8702 
Urinary sphincter C1815 
Vacuum 
Erection system L7900 
Pump 
Lower limb L5781-L5782 
Vascular graft L8670 
Voice L8500-L8515 
Protamine sulfate A4802, J2720 
Protectant, skin A6250 
Protector, heel or elbow E0191 
Protein C concentrate J2724 
Prothrombin C9159 ® 
Protirelin J2725 
Psoriasis G9649, G9651, G9764 
Psychiatric 
Collaborative care model, RHC/FQHC G0512 
Health facility service H2013 
Outpatient services S9480 
Psychoeducational services H2027 
Psychological services H0036, H0037, G0409-G0411 
Psychotherapy G0017, G0018@ 
Pulmonary 
Nodule, incidental G9754 
Rehabilitation S9473 
Pulse generator system, inner ear A4638, E2120 
Pump 
Alternating pressure pad E0182 
Ambulatory infusion E0779-E0781 
Ambulatory insulin E0784, E0787 
Supplies A4230, A4232 
Blood, dialysis E1620 
Breast A4281-A4286, E0602-E0604 
Enteral infusion B9002 
Heparin infusion E1520 
Infusion 
Ambulatory E0779-E0781 
External E0784, E0787 
Implantable E0782, E0783 
lntraspinal E0785 
Programmable C1772, E0786 
Parenteral medication K0455 
Replacement battery K0601-K0605 
Stationary E0791 
Supplies A4238, A4239, K0552 
Refill kit A4220 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Insulin A4224-A4232 
Negative pressure wound therapy E2402 
Parenteral infusion B9004, B9006 
Suction 
Gastric E2000 
Respiratory E0600 
Urine E2001 ®1 
Wound, home use K0743 
Water circulating pad E0236 
Pumps, monitors, and supplies A4220-A4232, 
E2000-E2120, K0455-K0605 
PuraPly® Q4195-Q4197 
Purification system, water E1610, E1615 
Pyridoxine HCI J3415 
Rack/stand, oxygen E1355 
Radiation 
Dosimeter A4650 
Exposure G9500, G9501 
Intensity modulated G6015 
Intra-fraction localization and tracking G6017 
Therapy services C9794, C9795, G6001-G6017@ 
Treatment delivery 
1 area G6003, G6004, G6005, G6006 
2 areas G6007, G6008, G6009, G6010 
3 or more areas G6011, G6012, G6013, G6014 
Radiesse® Q2026 
Radioelements for brachytherapy Q3001 
Radiolabeled 
Product provided C9898 
Radiology, portable equipment transport R0070-R0076 
Radiopharmaceuticals/contrast agents A4641 , A4642, 
A9500-A9800 <ti 
Rail 
Bathtub E0241, E0242, E0246 
Bed side, full length E0310 
Bed side, half length E0305 
Toilet E0243 
Ramucirumab J9308 
Range of motion assist device 
Powered L8701-L8702 
Ranibizumab J2778, J2779, Q5124 
Ranitidine hydrochloride J2780 
Rasburicase J2783 
Ras Testing G9843 
Not performed G9841 
Performed G9840 
Ravulizumab-cwvz J1303 
Reaching/grabbing device A9281 
Reagent strip 
Glucose, blood A4253 
For dialysis A4772 
Ketone, blood A4252 
Urine A4250 
Reciprocating peritoneal dialysis system E1630 
Rectal control system, vaginal A4563 
Recorder, event, cardiac C1764 
Red blood cells P9021, P9022 
Red congo, blood P2029 
102 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Referral 
Declined G0041 
For therapy G0042 
Not referred, reason not given G0039 
Not required G0038 
To appropriate resources G2186 
Refusal to participate, patient G2209 
RegadenosonJ2785 
Reguard 04255 
Regular insulin J1815 
Regulator, oxygen E1353 
Rehabilitation 
Cardiac G0422, G0423, S9472 
Devices, extension/flexion E 1800-E 1841 
Program H2001 
Psychosocial rehabilitation services H2017, H2018 
Pulmonary S9473 
Vestibular S9476 
Relese Q4257 
Remdesivir J0248 
Remission G9509, G9510 
Remote 
Evaluation image from patient G2010, G9868, G9869, 
G9870 
In home E/M 
CMS Innovation Center demonstration project 
G9481-G9489, G9490 
Bundled Payments for Care Improvement Advanced 
(BPCI Advanced) model G9978-G9982, 
G9983-G9986, G9987 
Removal 
Sutures S0630 
Renal dialysis 
Acute kidney injury G0491-G0492 
Renflexis® 05104 
Repair 
Contract, ESRD A4890 
Device, urinary A4890 
With sling graft C1771 
DME (durable medical equipment) 
Other than oxygen equipment K0739 
Oxygen equipment K0740 
Fetal 
In utero procedures S2400, S2401, S2402, S2403, 
S2404,S2409 
Sacrococcygeal teratoma S2405 
Maxillofacial prosthesis 
Labor component L8049 
Replacement 
Batteries A4233-A4236, A4601, A4602, A4630, 
K0601-K0605 
Orthotic components L4000-L4130 
Pad (alternating pressure) A4640 
Parts A4630-A4640 
Temporary, patient owned equipment K0462 
Tip for cane, crutches, walker A4637 
Underarm pad for crutches A4635 
Reproductive medicine services S4011- S4989 
Residential care, long-term T2048 
Reslizumab injection J2786 
Respiratory procedures, therapeutic G0237, G0238, 
G0239 
Respiratory supplies and equipment 
Circuits, breathing A4618 
Cannula; nasal A4615 
Catheter -,. · .,t 
Oropharyngeal 
Suction A4628 
Referral - Respiratory supplies and equipment 
Tracheal 
Oxygen A4608 
Suction A4605, A4624 
Device 
Positive Airway Pressure A7049, E0470- E0472, 
E0484@ 
Cannula, nasal 
Interface A7034 
PillowA7033 
Chin strap A7036 
Continuous E0601 
Exhalation port A 7045 
Filter 
Disposable A7038 
Non disposable A7039 
Head gear A7035 
Humidifier E0561, E0562 
Water chamber A7046 
MaskA7027, A7030 
Cushion A7028, A7032 
Interface A7031, A7034 
PillowA7029 
Oral interface A7044 
Tubing A4604, A7037 
Drainage management 
ChestA7040,A7041,A7048 
Face tentA4619 
Inhaler 
Spacer bag A4627 
Mask, variable concentration A4620 
MeterA4614 
Mouthpiece A4617 
Nebulizer A7003-A7012, A7015-A7018, E0570, 
E0575- E0585 
Aerosol 
Compressor E0572 
Filter A7013, A7014 
MaskA7015 
Bottle, glass or autoclavable plastic A7017, E0580 
Heater E1372 
Interface 
Cough stimulating device A7020 
Large volume E0575 
Prefilled A7008 
Reservoir bottle A7009 
Tubing A7010 
Unfilled A7007 
Water 
Collection deviceA7012 
Distilled A7018 
Oscillation system, high frequency, chest wall A7025, 
A7026 
Pneumatic 
Administration set A7003, A7005, A7006 
Nonfiltered A7004 
Reusable A7017 
Small volume A7004, E0574 
Administration setA7003, A7005, A7006 
Mouthpiece A7016 
Tubing 
Corrugated A7010 
Ultrasonic 
Dome and mouthpiece A7016 
Electronic E0574 
Large volume E0575 
Reservoir bottle A7009 
Small volume E0574 
With compressor/heater E0570, E0575, E0585 
® New index entry 
103 
Respite care services - Screening 
Suction pump E0600 
Canister A7000, A7001 
Interface 
Oral A7047 
Tubing A7002 
Tracheostomy supplies 
Adhesive disc A7506 
Cannula, inner A4623 
Filter A4481 
Care kit A4625, A4629 
Cleaning brush A4626 
Collar A7526 
Filter A7503, A7504 
Holder A7503, A7507, A7509 
Housing A7505, A7508 
MaskA7525 
Not otherwise classified S8189 
PlugA7527 
Protector, shower A7523 
Speaking valve L8501 
StentA7524 
Tube A7520-A7522 
Valve A7501 
Replacement diaphragm A7503 
Tubing 
Corrugated A701 O 
Oxygen A4616 
Suction pump A7002 
Ventilator 
Moisturizer exchanger A4483 
Patient owned 
Battery A4611 
Cables A4612 
Charger A4613 
Respite care services H0045, S5150, S5151, S9125 
Restorigin ™ 04191, 04192 
Restraint, any type E0710 
Resuscitation bag S8999 
Retacrit® 05105-05106 
Reteplase J2993 
Retinal 
Diabetic indicator eye exam S3000 
Exam M1220, M1221 ® 
Tamponade device C1814 
Retrieval device, insertable C1603, C1773 18
1 
Return to the operating room G9514, G9515, G9516, G9517 
Revascularization 
Femoral/popliteal arteries C7531, C7534, C7535 
Tibial/peroneal arteries 
With 
lntravascular lithotripsy and angioplasty C9772 
C9764 
Arthrectomy C977 4, C9766 
Stent C9773, C9765 
With Arthrectomy C9775, C9767 
Revefenacin inhalation solution J7677 
Revita® 04180 
Rhabdomyolysis dx G9780 
Rho(D) immune globulin, human J2788 J2790 J2791 
J2792 
' 
' 
'
Rib belt, thoracic L0220 
Riboflavin 5'-phosphate, ophthalmic solution J2787 
Rilonacept J2793 
RimabotulinumtoxinB J0587 
Ring, ostomy A4404 
Ringers lactate infusion J7120 
Risankizumab-Rzaa J2327 
Risperidone J2794, J2798 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Rituximab J9312, 05115, 05119, 05123 
Rituximab and hyaluronidase J9311 
Robin-Aids® hand L6000, L6010, L6020, L6708, L6709 
Robotic surgical system techniques S2900 
Rocking bed E0462 
Rolapitant 
Injection J2797 
Oral J8670 
Rollabout chair E1031 
Romiplostim J2796 
Romosozumab-aqqg J3111 
Ropivacaine HCI J2795 
Routine foot care S0390 
Diabetic patient G0247 
Exam G9502 
Rubidium-82 {Rb-82) A9555 
Rural Health Clinic or Federally Qualified Health Center 
(RHC/FQHC) only G0511, G0512 
Rybrevant J9061 
Rylaze J9021 
Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy J9317 
Sacral nerve stimulation test lead A4290 
Safety equipment E0700-E071 O 
Vest, wheelchair E0980 
Sales tax S9999 
Saline solution A4216, J7030-J7050, S5010, S5013, S5014 
Metered dose dispenser A4218 
Saliva 
Artificial A9155 
Test, hormone level S3650, S3652 
Samarium SM 153 lexidronam A9604 
Saquinavir S0140 
Sargramostim (GM-CSF) J2820 
SARS-COV-2 
Detection U0001-U0002 
Scale E1639 
School-based education program T1018 
Scintimammography S8080 
Scoliosis, orthoses and procedures L 1000-L 1499 
Additions L 1010-L 1290 
Score 
MRS G0045, G0046, G9646, G9648, M1236 ® 
PHO-9M G9509, G9511 
PHO-9 score G9393, G9395, G9396, G9509, G9510, 
G9511 
Screening 
Alcohol G0442, G2196-G2202, G9621-G9624 
Cancer 
Abdominopelvic G0101-G0105 
Cervical or vaginal G0101 
Colo rectal 
Barium enema G0106, G0120, G0122 
Blood-based biomarker G0327 
Colonoscopy G0105, G0121 
Documentation M1277, M1315 ® 
Fecal occult blood test G0328 
Flexible sigmoidoscopy G0104 
Proctoscopy S0601 
Lung, computed tomography G0296 
Prostate, rectal, digital exam G0102 
PSA (prostate specific antigen) test G0103 
Cytopathology, cervical/vaginal G0123, G0124, G0141, 
G0143, G0144, G0145, G0147, G0148 
Depression G0444 
104 
N New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Dysphagia V5364 
Fall 
Not screened M 1070 
Screened M 1069 
Glaucoma G0117, G0118 
Hearing V5008 
HCV (Hepatitis C virus) infection G0472 
HIV G0475 
Language V5363 
Lung cancer G0296 
Miscellaneous T1023 
Newborn metabolic panel S3620 
Papanicolaou smear 00091 
Performed under physician supervision P3000 
Requiring interpretation by physician P3001 
Preadmission 
Level IT2010 
Level II T2011 
Speech V5362-V5364 
TB M1003-M1005 
Tobacco user 
Identified Non-user G9903, M1282 ® 
Identified User G0030, G9902, M1283, M1289, M1301, 
M1310, M1316 ® 
Not screened, reason not given G0029, G9905, M1312, 
M1313 ® 
Sculptra® Q2028 
Sealant 
Fibrin, human plasma C9250 
Pulmonary, liquid C2615 
Skin A6250 
Seat 
Attachment, walker E0156 
Insert, wheelchair E0992 
Lift E0621, E0627-E0629 
Positioning T5001 
Upholstery E0981, E1297 
Sebelipase alfa injection J2840 
Secretin J2850 
Semen analysis G0027 
Sensitivity study, urinary tract infection P7001 
Sensory nerve conduction test (SNCT) G0255 
Septal defect implant system, intracardiac C1817 
Sermorelin acetate Q0515 
Serum clotting time tube A4771 
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
Detection U0001-U0002 
Services 
High intensity clinical G2020 
Mental health C7900-C7902 
Provided outside the USA S9989 
Substance use C7900-C7902 
Treatment 
Opioid use G2172 
Veterans Affairs (VA) Q9004 
SEWHO (shoulder, elbow, wrist, hand orthosis) 
L3960-L3973 
SEXA (bone density study) G0130 
Sexual 
Activity G9818 
Offender treatment H2028, H2029 
Sheath, prosthetic L8400-L8417 
Sheepskin pad E0188, E0189 
Shoes 
Arch support 
Nonremovable 
Longitudinal L3070 
Longitudinal/metatarsal L3090 
Metatarsal L3080 
Removable 
Longitudinal L3040 
Longitudinal/metatarsal L3060 
Metatarsal L3050 
Sculptra - Skin 
Diabetic 
Fitting A5500, A5501, A5507 
Insert, multiple density A5510-A5514 
Modification A5503-A5506, A5507 
Shoe, off-the-shelf A5508 
Insert, removable L3031 
Formed to patient foot L3030 
Longitudinal arch support, each L3010 
Longitudinal/metatarsal support, each L3020 
Plastazote or equal, each L3002 
Silicone gel, each L3003 
Spenco®, each L3001 
UCB type, Berkeley shell, each L3000 
Lift L3300-L3334 
Orthopedic L3201-L3265 
Additions 
Shoes L3500-L3595 
High-top 
Child L3206 
Infant L3204 
Junior L3207 
Oxford 
Child L3202 
Infant L3201 
Junior L3203 
Positioning device L3140, L3150, L3160, L3170 
Transfer, orthosis L3600-L3649 
Shoulder 
Disarticulation, prosthetic L6300-L6320, L6550 
Orthosis (SO) L3650-L3674, L3677, L3678 
Sling A4566 
Spinal, cervical L0120-L0200 
Shoulder-elbow-wrist-hand orthosis (SEWHO) 
L3960-L3973 
Shrinker L8440-L8465 
Shunt 
Accessory for dialysis A4 7 40 
lnteratrial shunt investigational device exemption (IDE) 
C9758,C9760 
Aqueous, for glaucoma L8612 
Sigmoidoscopy, cancer screening G0104, G0106 
Sign language/oral interpretive services T1013 
Signature Apatch Q4260 
Sildenafil citrate S0090 
Siltuximab J2860 
Sincalide J2805 
Sipuleucel-T Q2043 
Sirolimus J7520, J9331 
Sitz bath 
Chair E0162 
With or without commode E0160 
With faucet attachment E0161 
Skills training and development H2014, H2038 
Skin 
Barrier, ostomy A4362, A4363, A4369-A4373, A4385, 
A5120 
Adhesive, liquid or equal A4364 
Piercing device 
Laser, for capillary blood collection E0620 
Sealant, protectant, moisturizer A6250 
Substitutes and biologics A2001-A2025, A4100, 
C5271-C5278, C9358, C9360, C9363, J3590, 
Q41 00-Q4304 IN) 
® New index entry 
105 
Sleep - Stimulators 
Sleep 
Apnea 
Symptoms G8839-G8841, G8845, G8846, G8849 
Treatment E0530@ 
Study test, home (HST) G0398, G0399, G0400 
Sleeve A4600, L7600 
Sling A4565 
Patient lift E0621, E0630, E0635 
Shoulder A4566 
Smoker 
Current G9642 
Smoking cessation services and supplies 
Counseling G9016 
Supplies S4990, S4991, S4995 
Social determinants of health G0136, M1207, M1208, 
M1317-M1320 lf;ll 
Negative G9920 
Not performed G9921, M1237 IN) 
Partial G9921 
Positive no recommendations G9921 
Positive with recommendations G9919 
Social work and psychological services G0409, S9127 
Sock L8417-L8435, L84 70-L8485 
Body L0984 
Prosthetic 
Above knee L8430 
Below knee L8420 
Upper limb L8435 
Stump 
Above knee L8480 
Below knee L8470 
Upper limb L8485 
Sodium 
Ferric gluconate complex in sucrose J2916 
Fluoride F-18 A9580 
Hyaluronan J7325 
Synvisc®, Synvisc One® J7325 
Hyaluronate 
Euflexxa® J7323 
GELSYN-3® J7328 
Hyalgan® J7321 
Orthovisc® J7324 
Supartz® J7321 
VISCO-3 ™ J7321 
Phosphate P32 A9563 
Succinate J 1720 
Solution 
Calibrator A4256 
Dialysate, test kit A4760 
Elliotts B J9175 
Enteral formula B4149-B4162 
Parenteral nutrition B4164-B5200 
Somatrem J2940 
Somatropin J2941 
Sorbent cartridge, ESRD E 1636 
Sotalol hydrochloride iv C9482 
Sotrovimab M0247, M0248, 00247 
Specialty absorptive dressing A6251-A6256 
Specimen collection G0471 
Catheterization P9612, P9615 
Travel allowance P9603, P9604 
Spectinomycin HCI J3320 
Speech 
Assessment V5362, V5363, V5364 
Generating device 
Accessory 
Mounting system E2512 
Not otherwise classified E2599 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Digitized speech, pre-recorded messages 
Less than or equal to 8 minutes E2500 
More than 8 minutes, less than or equal to 20 
minutes E2502 
More than 20 minutes but less than or equal to 40 
minutes E2504 
More than 40 minutes E2506 
Synthesized speech 
Message formulation by spelling E2508 
Multiple methods of message formulation E2510 
Generating software program E2511 
Therapy 
In home S9128 
Re-evaluation S9152 
Volume modulation system E3000 ® 
Sperm procurement and cryopreservation S4030, S4031 
Spinal orthosis 
Cervical L0120-L0200 
Multiple post collar L0180-L0200 
Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral (CTLSO) L0700, L0710 
Halo L0810-L0830 
Scoliosis L 1000-L 1499 
Spine/lumbar disc surgery C9757 
Spirometer A9284, E0487 
Splint A4570 
Dynamic adjustable extension/flexion device 
Ankle E1815 
Elbow/forearm E1800, E1802 
Finger E1825 
Knee E1810, E1812 
Toe E1830 
Wrist E1805 
Finger, static 04049 
Flexion/abduction/rotation device, shoulder E1840 
Footdrop L4394, L4398 
Hallus-valgus L3100 
Prefabricated 
Digit S8450 
Elbow S8452 
Wrist or ankle S8451 
Static progressive stretch device 
Shoulder E 1841 
Toe E1831 
Supplies, miscellaneous 04001-04051 
STAT laboratory charge S3600, S3601 
Static progressive stretch device 
Ankle E1816 
Elbow E1801 
Forearm E1818 
Knee E1811 
Replacement, soft interface material/cuffs E1821 
Wrist E1806 
Statin therapy G8815, G8816, G8817, G9507, G9508 
Stent C1874-C1877 
Non-coronary C2617, C2625, S1091 
Placement C9600-C9608 
Stereoscopic X-ray guidance G6002 
Stereotactic 
Radiation therapy C9795 ® 
Radiosurgery G0339, G0340 
Sterile 
Cefuroxime sodium J0697 
Diluent for epoprostenol SO 155 
Water A4216, A4217 
Stimulation devices E0720-E0770 
Stimulators 
Electrical A4595, A4596, E0720, E0730, E0740, E0762, 
E0766, E0769, E0770 
106 
t-ll New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Nerve A4290, A4540-A4542, A4560, E0733-E0735, E0765@ 
Neuromuscular E0744, E0745, E0764 
Osteogenesis 
Electrical E0747, E0748, E0749 
Ultrasound, low intensity E0760 
Salivary reflex E0755 
Stocking 
Gradient compression 
Below knee 
18-30 mmHg A6610, A6530 (!ii
30-40 mmHg A6552, A6553 (N}
Used as surgical dressing A6531
40+ mmHg A6554, A6555 181 
Used as surgical dressing A6532 
Full length/chap style 
18-30 mmHg A6536, A6559 ®
30-40 mmHg A6537, A6560 ®
40+ mmHg A6538, A6561 ®
Garter belt A6544 
Thigh length 
18-30 mmHg A6533, A6556 ®
30-40 mmHg A6534, A6557 IN)
40+ mmHg A6535, A6558 l8l
Waist length 
18-30 mmHg A6539, A6562 <Si
30-40 mmHg A6540, A6563 If.Ii
40+ mmHg A6541, A6564 (.Nl 
Stoma 
Ostomy 
Cap A5055 
Catheter A5082 
Cover, absorptive A5083 
Plug A5081 
Stomach tube B4083 
Stravix®/Stravixpl® 04133 
Streptokinase J2995 
Streptomycin J3000 
Streptozocin J9320 
Strip 
Blood glucose test A4253, A4772 
Blood ketone test A4252 
Urine reagent A4250 
Strontium-89 chloride A9600 
Stump sock L8470, L8480, L8485 
Stylet A4212 
Substance abuse C7900-C7902, G9518, S9475, 
T1006-T1012 
Succinylcholine chloride J0330 
Suction pump 
Canister A7000, A7001 
Gastric E2000 
Interface 
Oral A7047 
Respiratory E0600 
Tubing A7002 
Urine E2001 1tl) 
Wounds, home model KO? 43 
Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim S0039 
Sulfur hexafluoride lipid microspheres 09950 
Sumatriptan succinate J3030 
Supartz® J7321 
Supplies 
Miscellaneous DME A9900-A9999 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) T5999 
Various A4206-A8004 
Support 
Arch L3040-L3090 
Cervical L0120-L0200 
Stockings A6530-A6544 
Stocking - Technetium TC 99m 
Supported housing H0043, H0044 
Supports brokerage T2051 
SureDerm® 04220 
Surface electromyography (EMG) S3900 
Surfactor® 04233 
Surgical 
Boot L3208-L3211 
Dressing A4461-A4467, A6196-A6403 
Pathology, prostate needle biopsy G0416 
Stocking 
Above knee length A4490 
Below knee length A4500 
Full length A4510 
Thigh length A4495 
Silicone oil G9756, G9757 
Supplies A4206-A8004 
Miscellaneous A4649 
Tray A4550 
Surgicord 04218 
Surgigraft 04183, 04219 
Surgraft® 04209, 04263 
Sutimlimab-Jome J1302 
Suture removal S0630 
Swabs, betadine or iodine A4247 
Swivel adapter S8186 
Synojoynt J7331 
Synthetic resorbable dressing A6460-A6461 
Synvisc®, Synvisc One® J7325 
Syringe A4213, A4657 
With needle A4206, A4207, A4208, A4209 
Table 
For bed E0274, E0315 
System, positioning E0638, E0642 
Tacrine hydrochloride S0014 
Tacrolimus 
Extended release J7503 
Oral J7507, J7508 
Parenteral J7525 
Tag 04261 
Tagraxofusp-erzs J9269 
Taliglucerase alfa J3060 
Talimogene laherparepvec J9325 
Talquetamab-tgvs C9163 <N> 
Tamoxifen citrate S0187 
Tamponade, retinal C1814 
Tapes/Adhesives 
Breast prosthesis A4280 
Non waterproof A4450 
Remover A4455, A4456 
Waterproof A4452 
Targeted 
Case management 
Each 15 minutes T1017 
Per month T2023 
Taxi, nonemergency transportation A0100 
TB screening M1003-M1005 
TBO-filgrastim J1447 
Tebentafusp-Tebn J9274 
Technetium TC 99m 
Apcitide A9504 
Arcitumomab A9568 
Bicisate A9557 
Depreotide A9536 
Disofenin A9510 
® New index entry 
107 
Tedizolid phosphate - Tobacco 
Exametazime A9521 
Exametazime labeled autologous white blood cells A9569 
Fanolesomab A9566 
Gluceptate A9550 
Highly enriched Q9969 
Labeled red blood cells A9560 
Macroaggregated albumin A9540 
Mebrofenin A9537 
Medronate A9503 
Mertiatide A9562 
Oxidronate A9561 
Pentetate A9539, A9567 
Pertechnetate A9512 
Pyrophosphate A9538 
Sestamibi A9500 
Sodium gluceptate A9550 
Succimer A9551 
Sulfur colloid A9541 
Teboroxime A9501 
Tetrofosmin A9502 
Tilmanocept A9520 
Tedizolid phosphate J3090 
Telavancin J3095 
Telehealth services G0071 
Consultation G0406-G0408, G0425-G0427, G0508, G0509 
Home health G0320, G0321 
Data stored/transmitted G0322 
Inpatient pharmacologic management G0459 
Originating site fee Q3014 
Payment G2025 
Telemonitoring 
In home S9110 
Transmission T1014 
Temozolomide 
Injection J9328 
Oral J8700 
Temsirolimus J9330 
Tendon, porous matrix C9356 
Tenecteplase J3101 
Teniposide Q2017 
TENS (transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation) A4595, 
E0720-E0749 
Tension ring, vacuum erection device L7902 
Tent, oxygen E0455 
Teprotumumab-trbw J3241 
Terbutaline sulfate 
Inhalation solution, concentrated J7680 
Inhalation solution, unit dose J7681 
Injection J3105 
Teriparatide J3110 
Terminal devices 
Hook or hand, heavy duty L6721, L6722 
Hook, mechanical, voluntary closing L6707, L6709 
Pediatric L6712, L6714 
Hook, mechanical, voluntary opening L6706, L6708 
Pediatric L6711, L6713 
Multiple articulating digit L6715 
Passive hand/mitt L6703 
Sport/recreational/work attachment L6704 
Test 
Reader, diagnostic K1035 ® 
Strips 
Ammonia A4774 
Blood 
Glucose A4772 
Occult A4 773 
Testing 
Esophageal mucosa! integrity C9777 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Testosterone 
Cypionate and estradiol cypionate J 1071 
Enanthate J3121 
Pellet S0189 
Undecanoate J3145 
Tetanus immune globulin, human J1670 
Tetracycline J0120 
Tezepelumab-Ekko J2356 
Thallous chloride Tl-201 A9505 
Theophylline J2810 
Therapeutic 
Lightbox A4634, E0203 
Radiology 
Field setting C9794 ® 
Stereotactic C9795 1tl) 
Services and supplies C9725-C9899, G0127-G0372, T1999 
Therapy 
Activity H2032 
Behavioral, digital A9291 
Community support H2000-H2037 
Heat, cold, and/or light E0200-E0239 
Infusion 
Home S5497-S5523, S9325-S9379 
Mental Health H2000-H2037 
Multisystemic, juvenile H2033 
Occupational S9129 
Physical S9131 
Speech S9128, S9152 
UV light E0691-E0694 
TheraSkin® Q4121 
Thermometer 
Oral A4931 
Rectal A4932 
Thiamine HCI J3411 
Thickener, food 84100 
Thiethylperazine maleate J3280, 00174 
Thiotepa J9340 
Thoracic rib belt L0220 
Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO) L 1200 
Additions L 1210-L 1290 
Spinal L0450, L0452-L0492 
Thrombectomy catheter C1757 
Thromboembolism risk factor 
None or one moderate risk factor G8970 
Thymol turbidity, blood P2033 
Thyroid nodule G9552, G9553, G9555, G9557 
Thyroidectomy C7555 
Thyrotropin alfa J3240 
Ticarcillin disodium and clavulanate potassium S0040 
Tigecycline J3243, J3244 
Tildrakizumab J3245 
Tinzaparin sodium J1655 
Tip (cane/crutch/walker) replacement A4637 
Tire, wheelchair, pneumatic E2381-E2385 
Tirofiban J3246 
Tisagenlecleucel, therapeutic dose 02042 
Tisotumab vedotin-tftv J9273 
Tissue 
Connective A2001-A2025, A4100 ®1 
Human C1762 
Nonhuman C1763 
Location device C 1819 
Marker A4648 
Matrix C9354 
Tixagevimab and Cilgavimab 00221 
TLSO (thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis) L0452-L0492, 
L1200-L1290 
Tobacco 
Cessation intervention 
108 
,f:I) New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Identified user G0030, G9906, M1283 1n
Non-user M1282 ® 
Not provided 
Reason not given G0029, G9908, M1289 8l 
Use G9275, G9276, G9458, G9459, G9642, G9791, 
G9792, G9902-G9908 
Tobramycin 
Inhalation solution, unit dose J7682, J7685 
Sulfate J3260 
Tocilizumab J3262, M0249, M0250, Q0249 
Toilet and accessories 
Commode chair 
Electric E0170 
Extra wide E0168 
Nonelectric E0171 
With integrated lift E0170-E0171 
Footrest E0175 
Pan/pail E0167 
Patient lift E0625 
Rail E0243 
Raised seat E0244 
Seat lift E0172 
Tolazoline HCI J2670 
Toll, nonemergency transport A0170 
Tomosynthesis, breast G0279 
Topical 
Hyperbaric oxygen chamber A4575 
Oxygen delivery system E0446 
Topographic brain mapping S8040 
Topotecan 
Injection J9351 
Oral J8705 
Torsemide J3265 
Trabectedin injection J9352 
Tracheostomy supplies 
Adhesive disc A7506 
Cannula, inner A4623 
Filter A4481 
Care kit A4625, A4629 
Cleaning brush A4626 
Collar A7526 
Filter A7503, A7504 
Holder A7503, A7507, A7509 
Housing A7505, A7508 
MaskA7525 
Not otherwise classified S8189 
PlugA7527 
Protector, shower A7523 
Speaking valve L8501 
StentA7524 
Tube A7520-A7522 
Valve A7501 
Replacement diaphragm A7503 
Traction 
Device, ambulatory E0830 
EquipmenUaccessories E0830- E0948 
Training 
Alcohol and/or drug training service H0021 
Child development, family T1027 
Diabetes self management G0108, G0109 
Medication training and support H0034 
Skills training and development H2014, H2038 
Transcatheter occlusion or embolization S2095 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator (TENS) 
Conductive garment E0731 
Electrical stimulator supplies A4595 
Four-lead or more E0730 
Two-lead E0720 
Tobramycin - Travel allowance for specimen collection 
Transcyte Q4182 
Transducer protector, dialysis E 1575 
Transesophageal 
Doppler measurement G9157 
Echocardiography 
For congenital cardiac anomalies C8926 
For monitoring purposes C8927 
Real time with 20 image documentation C8925 
Pacing (catheter) C1756 
Transfer 
Device E0705 
Shoe orthosis L3600-L3640 
System with seat E 1035 
Transluminal 
Angioplasty 
Laser catheter C1885 
Nonlaser catheter C 1725, C2623 
Atherectomy 
Directional catheter C1714 
Rotational catheter C1724 
Transparent film (for dressing) A6257-A6259 
Transplant 
Adrenal tissue to brain S2103 
Bone marrow S2150 
Heart M1151, M1152 
Islet cell S2102 
Laparoscopy G0342 
Laparotomy G0343 
Percutaneous G0341 
Kidney and pancreas, simultaneous S2065 
Lobar lung S2060 
Multiple visceral organs S2054 
Related lodging, meals, transportation S9975, S9976 
Small intestine and liver S2053 
Stem cells, cord blood derived S2142 
Transport chairs E1037-E1039 
Transportation 
Ambulance see Ambulance and other transport services 
and supplies 
Conventional air A0430, A0431 
Corneal tissue V2785 
EKG equipment, portable R0076 
Neonatal, emergency ambulance service A0225 
Nonemergency A0080-A0210, S0215, T2001-T2005, T2049 
Air A0140, T2007 
Ancillary 
Lodging A0180, A0200 
Meals A0190, A0210, S9977 
Out-of-state ambulance transport A0021 
Parking fees/tolls A0170 
Bus A0110 
Case worker or social worker A0160 
Mini-bus A0120 
Stretcher van T2005, T2049 
Taxi A0100 
Van, wheelchair A0130, S0209 
Vehicle provided by 
Individual A0090 
Volunteer A0080 
Services T2001-T2007 
X-ray equipment, portable R0070, R0075
Transtracheal oxygen catheter A4608 
Trapeze bar E0910, E0911, E0912, E0940 
Trastuzumab J9316, J9355, J9358, Q5112-Q5114, Q5116, 
Q5117 
Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase J9316, J9356 
Trauma response team G0390 
Travel allowance for specimen collection P9603, P9604 
18) New index entry
109 
Tray - Urine/Urinary 
Tray 
Insertion A431 0-A4316 
Irrigation A4320 
Surgical A4550 
Wheelchair E0950 
Treatment 
Acute care at NF G9679-G9685 
Community H0039, H0040 
In place (TIP} G2021 
Planning and care coordination S0353, S0354 
Treprostinil J3285 
Tretinoin, topical S0117 
Triamcinolone J3301-J3303 
Acetonide J3299 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) J3301 
Preservative free J3300, J3304 
Diacetate J3302 
Hexacetonide J3303 
Inhalation solution 
Concentrated J7683 
Unit dose J7684 
Triferic avnu J1445 
Triflupromazine HCI J3400 
Trifocal, glass or plastic V2300-V2399 
Trilaciclib J1448 
Triluron J7332 
Trimethobenzamide HCI 
Injection J3250 
Oral Q0173 
Trimetrexate glucuronate J3305 
Trimming, routine foot care 
Corns/calluses/nails S0390 
Triptorelin 
Extended release J3316 
Pamoate J3315 
TriVisc TM J7329 
Truss L8300, L8310, L8320, L8330 
Tube/Tubing 
Anchoring device A5200 
Blood A4750, A4755 
Breast pump A4281 
Calibrated microcapillary A4651 
Corrugated, nebulizer A7010 
Drainage extension A4331 
Enema A4457 ® 
Gastrostomy/Jejunostomy B4087, B4088 
Irrigation A4355 
IV extension S1015 
Nasogastric B4081, B4082 
Oxygen A4616 
Restrictive 
Elbow E0711 ® 
Sealant, microcapillary tube A4652 
Serum clotting time A4771 
Stomach B4083 
Suction pump, each A7002 
Urinary drainage A4331 
Vacuum blood collection A4770 
With heating element A4604 
"Y set" A4719 
Tumor 
Category documented G8721 
Not included in pathology report 
Medical reason G8722 
Reason not given G8724 
Specimen site 
Other than anatomic location G8723 
110 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Ultrafiltration monitor S9007 
Ultrasonic 
Diathermy treatment device, low frequency K1004, 
K1036 ® 
Nebulizer E0575 
Ultrasound 
Catheter, intravascular C1753 
Gel A4559 
Guidance for placement of radiation therapy fields G6001 
lntravascular C1753 
Ultraviolet light therapy system A4633, E0691-E0694 
Unclassified drug or biological J3490, J3590 
ESRD J3591 
Underpads 
Bed T4537 
ChairT4540 
Disposable A4554, T 4541, T 4542 
Large T4521 
Small T4542 
Non-disposable A4553 
Underwear, protective 
Adult 
Above extra-large T4544 
Extra-large T 4524 
Large T4523 
Medium T4522 
Small T4521 
Pediatric T4531, T4532 
Large T4532 
Small/Medium T4531 
Youth T4534 
Unipuncture control system, dialysis E1580 
Unspecified oral dosage form Q0181 
Upper extremity 
Addition, locking elbow L6693 
Orthosis L3980-L3999 
Addition of joint L3956 
Prosthesis L6000-L 7 499 
Urea J3350 
Ureteral 
Catheter C1758 
Ureterostomy 
Supplies A4450-A4554 
Tube change C7549 
Urethral suppository J0275 
Urgent care center 
Global fee S9083 
Services M1054, S9088 
URI 
With competing diagnosis G2097 
With prior antibiotic prescription G2174 
With prior comorbid condition G2173 
Urinal 
Jug-type, female E0326 
Jug-type, male E0325 
Urine/Urinary 
Catheter A4326-A4328, A4338-A4346, A4349, 
A4351-A4353, A6590, A6591 ®I 
Collection and retention (supplies) A431 0-A4360 
Culture, bacterial P7001 
® New index entry 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Drainage device, intraurethral A4341, A4342 ,N, 
Pump, suction E2001 •8 
Reagent strips A4250 
Repair device without sling graft C2631 
Sphincter prosthesis C 1815 
Tract implant 
Collagen L8603 
Synthetic L8606 
Urofollitropin J3355 
Urokinase J3364, J3365 
Ustekinumab J3357, J3358 
Uterine, monitor S9001 
UV lens V2755 
Uvuloplalatoplasty S2080 
Vabra aspirator A4480 
Vaccination 
Administration 
Hepatitis B G0010, M0201 
Influenza G0008, M0201, M1168-M1170, M1299, 
M1308 N 
Pn,!:lumococcal G0009, G9280, G8864-G8867, M0201, 
M1177-M1179, M1304-M1306 N 
Screening performed G9281 
Vaccine 
COVID-19 M0201 
Influenza M0201, M1299, M1308, 02034-02039 N• 
Pneumococcal G9990, G9991, M0201, M1177-M1179, 
M1304-M1306 N 
Vancomycin HCI J3370-J3372 
Vaporizer E0605 
Vascular 
Catheter and supplies A4300-A4306 
Graft material, synthetic L8670 
Vedolizumab J3380 
Vehicle 
Power operated K0800-K0812 
Velaglucerase alfa J3385 
Venipuncture S9529 
Venous pressure clamp, dialysis A4918 
Ventilator 
Battery A4611, A4612, A4613 
Home 
Any type E0465, E0466 
Multi-function E0467 
Moisture exchanger A4483 
System, intrapulmonary percussive E0481 
Ventricular assist device 00477-00509 
Vertebral 
Augmentation C7507, C7508 
Axial decompression S9090 
Vertebroplasty C7504, C7505 
Verteporfin J3396 
Vest, safety, wheelchair E0980 
Vestibular rehabilitation program S9476 
Vestronidase alfa-vjbk J3397 
Veterans services 09004 
Vinblastine sulfate J9360 
Vincristine sulfate J9370, J9371 
Vinorelbine tartrate J9390 
Virtual 
Check-in G2251, G2252 
Reality 
CBT device E1905 •8· 
Urofollitropin - Wheelchair 
Vision 
Service V2700-V2799 
Supplies S0500-S0596, V2600-V2615 
Therapy A9292 8 
Visual acuity improvement G9517, G9519, G9520 
Vitamins 
B-12 cyanocobalamin J3420
Dialysis stress supplement S0194
K J3430
Not otherwise specified A9152-A9153
Prenatal S0197
Vocal cord 
Medialization material C 1878 
Voice 
Amplifier L8510 
Prosthesis L8511-L8514 
Volume management G8955, G8958 
Von Willebrand factor complex J7183, J7187 
Voretigene neparvovec-rzyl J3398 
Voriconazole J3465 
Vutrisiran J0225 
WaiverT2012-T2041, T2047 
Walker E0130-E0149 
Attachments E0154-E0159 
Walking 
Aids E0100-E0149 
Accessories A4636, A4637 
Attachments E0153-E0159 
Boot 
Custom L4386 
Off-the-shelf L4387 
Warfarin responsiveness G9143 
Warming device 
Card E0232 
Wound E0231 
Washer 
Gravlee jet A4470 
Water 
Distilled, for nebulizer A7018 
Pressure pad/mattress E0187, E0198 
Purification system (ESRD) E1610, E1615 
Softening system (ESRD) E1625 
Sterile A4216-A4218, A4714 
Wedges, shoe L3340-L3420 
Well-child visit G9964, G9965 
Wet mount 00111 
Wheel attachment, rigid pickup walker E0155 
Wheelchair E0950-E1298, K0001-K0014 
Accessories E0950-E1036, E1225-E1228, E2201-E2398, 
E2626-E2633, K0001-K0195,K0669, K0733 
Interface, head or extremity control E2328, E2329 
Amputee E1170-E1200 
Arm support E2626-E2633 
Armrest E0973 
Back E1226, E2291, E2293, E2398 
Component or accessory K0001-K0195 
Cushions, seat and back E2601-E2625 
Custom fabricated E2617 
General use 
Width 22 inches or greater E2612 
Width less than 22 inches E2611 
Positioning 
Posterior, width 22 inches or greater E2614 
Posterior, width less than 22 inches E2613 
'81 New index entry 
111 
WHFO (wrist hand finger orthosis) - Zynlonta 
Posterior-lateral, width 22 inches or greater E2616 
Posterior-lateral, width less than 22 inches E2615 
Evaluation G9156 
Foot box E0954 
Fully-reclining 
Detachable arms/detachable footrests E1070 
Detachable arms/detachable leg rests E1060 
Fixed arms/detachable leg rests E1050 
Group 2 
Extra heavy duty, single power option, sling/solid seaU
back K0840 
Heavy duty, single power option 
Captain's chair K0838 
Sling/solid seaUback K0837 
Very heavy duty, single power option sling/solid seaU
back K0839 
Group 3 
Extra heavy duty captain's chair K0855 
Sling/solid seaUback K0854 
Heavy duty captain's chair K0851 
Sling/solid seaUback K0850 
Very heavy duty captain's chair K0853 
Sling/solid seaUback K0852 
Heavy duty E1092, E1093, E1280-E1298 
Hemi 
Detachable arms/detachable leg rests E1084 
Fixed arms/detachable footrest E1085, E1086 
Fixed arms/detachable leg rest E1083 
Standard, low seat K0002 
Lateral thigh or knee support E0953 
Lightweight E1240-E1270 
High-strength E 1087-E 1090 
Portable motorized K0012 
Narrowing device E0969 
Pediatric E1229-E1239 
Folding E1236 
Not otherwise specified (NOS) E1229 
Power operated E1239 
Power add-on E0983-E0984 
Power operated E1230, E1239, K0813-K0899 
Reclining E1050-E1070, E1100-E1110 
Seat E2292,E2294 
Shock absorber E1015-E1018 
Specially sized E1220, E1229 
Standard E1130-E1161, K0001 
Hemi, low seat K0002 
Weight frame motorized K0010 
With programmable control parameters K0011 
Stump support system E1020 
lire, pneumatic E2381-E2385 
Transfer board or device E0705 
Tray E0950 
Van, nonemergency A0130, S0209 
WHFO (wrist hand finger orthosis) L3807 
Whirlpool E1300, E1301, E1310 N 
WHO, wrist extension L3908 
Wig A9282 
Wipes A4245, A4247 
Wood 
Canes, all materials E0100 
Crutches 
Other than wood E0114, E0116 
Wood E0112, E0113 
Wound see a/so Dressings 
Cleanser A6260 
Cover 
Alginate dressing A6196-A6198 
Collagen dressing A6021-A6024 
Index to Services, Supplies, Equipment, Drugs 
Foam dressing A6209-A6214 
Hydrocolloid dressing A6234-A6239 
Hydrogel dressing A6242-A6247 
Specialty absorptive dressing A6251-A6256 
Wound warming device, noncontact E0231, E0232 
Dressing K0744, K0745, K0746, L3254, L3255 
Filler 
Adhesive tissue G0168 
Alginate dressing A6199 
Collagen based A6010 
Foam dressing per gram A6215 
Hydrocolloid dressing A6240, A6241 
Hydrogel dressing A6248 
Not elsewhere classified (NEC) A6261, A6262 
Matrix A2001-A2025, A4100 '8• 
Pouch A6154 
Supplies and dressings A4450-A4456, A4461-A4467, 
A6000-A6550 
Suction A9272, K0743 
Treatment 
Autologous platelet rich plasma G0460 
Biologicals and skin substitutes A2001-A2025, A4100, 
O4100-Q4304, S9055 ,Hi 
Compression burn mask A6513 
,
Electric or electromagnetic stimulation E0769, G0295, 
G0329 
Gel sheet A6025 
Packing strips A6407 
WoundExe 04162, 04163 
WoundFix™ 04217 
Wrap 
Chest E0459 
Heat and/or cold A9273 
Penile T4545 
Wrist 
Disarticulation prosthesis L6050, L6055 
Electronic wrist rotator L7259 
Hand/finger orthosis (WHFO) E1805, E1825, L3808, 
L3809,L3900,L3901,L3904 
Wrong site/side/patient/procedure/implant G8907, 
G8912-G8913 
Xcelleratelll 04234 
Xenon (Xe) A9558, C9150 1N 
Xwrap® 04204 
X-ray equipment, portable 00092, R0070, R0075
Ziconotide J2278 
Zidovudine J3485, S0104 
Ziprasidone mesylate J3486 
Zoledronic acid J3489 
Zynlonta J9359 
112 
8' New index entry 
Transportation Services Including Ambulance (A0021-A0999) 
A0021 -A0380 
CMS includes parenthetical coding guidelines for several codes throughout the Tabular List, which are effective for 2024. 
Some of these guidelines include deleted CPI® or HCPCS Level II codes, even though the guidelines were from the latest 
updates from CMS for 2024. Please check the CMS website for further updates or guideline changes. 
Generic and brand-name drugs found throughout the Tabular List are from the latest CMS updates. Please check the CMS 
website and the FDA website for further infonnation on valid or discontinued drugs. 
TRANSPORTATION SERVICES INCLUDING 
AMBULANCE (A0021-A0999) 
HCPCS Level II codes for ambulance services (A0021-A0999) 
must be reported with modifiers indicating pick-up origins 
and destinations. The modifier describing the arrangement 
(QM, QN) is listed first. The modifiers describing the origin 
and destination are listed second. Origin and destination 
modifiers are created by combining two alpha characters from 
the following list. Each alpha character, with the exception 
of X, represents either an origin or destination. Each pair of 
the alpha characters creates one modifier. The first position 
represents the origin and the second the destination. The 
modifiers most commonly used are: 
D 
Diagnostic or therapeutic site other than P or H when 
these are used as origin codes 
E 
Residential, domiciliary, custodial facility 
(other than 1819 facility) 
G 
H 
J 
N 
p 
R 
s 
X 
Hospital-based dialysis facility 
Hospital 
Site of transfer (e.g., airport or helicopter pad) 
between modes of ambulance transport 
Free standing ESRD facility 
Skilled nursing facility (SNF) 
Physician's office 
Residence 
Scene of accident or acute event 
Intermediate stop at physician's office on way to 
hospital (destination code only} 
AMBULANCE AND OTHER TRANSPORT SERVICES AND 
SUPPLIES (A0021-A0999) 
D A0021 Ambulance service, outside state per mile, 
transport (Medicaid only} 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D AOOBO Non-emergency transportation, per mile -
vehicle provided by volunteer (individual or 
organization), with no vested interest 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0090 Non-emergency transportation, 
per mile - vehicle provided by individual 
(family member, self, neighbor) with vested 
interest 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0100 Non-emergency transportation; taxi 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0110 Non-emergency transportation and bus, 
intra or inter state carrier 
E 1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0120 Non-emergency transportation: mini­
bus, mountain area transports, or other 
transportation systems 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0130 Non-emergency transportation: 
wheelchair van 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E1 
D A0140 Non-emergency transportation'and air travel 
(private or commercial) intra or inter state E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0160 Non-emergency transportation: 
per mile - case worker or social worker 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0170 Transportation ancillary: parking fees, tolls, 
other 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0180 Non-emergency transportation: ancillary: 
lodging-recipient 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0190 Non-emergency transportation: ancillary: 
meals-recipient 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0200 Non-emergency transportation: ancillary: 
lodging escort 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0210 Non-emergency transportation: ancillary: 
meals-escort 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0225 Ambulance service, neonatal transport, base 
rate, emergency transport, one way 
0 E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0380 BLS mileage (per mile) 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
,' Male only 
Si- Female only 
0 Age 
Al.- Z3 = A5C Payment indicator 
A Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
E1JI Paid under the DME fee schedule 
tlm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
113 
rwl 
rwl 
1111:1' 
0 cc 
I 
N 
CIO 
rwl 
0 cc 
A0382 - A0433 
Transportation Services Including Ambulance (A0021-A0999) 
114 
D A0382 BLS routine disposable supplies 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0384 BLS specialized service disposable 
supplies; defibrillalion (used by ALS 
ambulances and BLS ambulances 
in jurisdictions where defibrillation is 
permitted in BLS ambulances) 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0390 ALS mileage (per mile) 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E1 
E1 
E1 
D A0392 ALS specialized service disposable supplies; 
defibrillalion (to be used only in jurisdictions 
where defibrillation cannot be performed in 
BLS ambulances) 
E 1 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0394 ALS specialized service disposable supplies; 
IV drug therapy 
E1 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0396 ALS specialized service disposable supplies; 
esophageal intubation 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0398 ALS routine disposable supplies 
E1 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Waiting Time Units for 
Ambulance Services 
Units 
Total Time 
1 
1/2 to 1 hour 
2 
1 to 1-1/2 hours 
3 
1-1/2 to 2 hours
4 
2 to 2-1/2 hours 
5 
2-1/2 to 3 hours
6 
3 to 3-1/2 hours 
7 
3-1/2 to 4 hours
8 
4 to 4-1/2 hours 
9 
4-1/2 to 5 hours
10 
5 to 5-1/2 hours 
D A0420 Ambulance wailing lime (ALS or BLS}, 
one half (1/2) hour increments 
E1 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0422 Ambulance (ALS or BLS) oxygen and 
oxygen supplies, life sustaining situation 
E1 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A0424 Extra ambulance attendant, ground (ALS or 
BLS) or air (fixed or rotary winged); 
(requires medical review) 
E1 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 A0425 Ground mileage, per statute mile 
A 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012. Q4 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-15, 20.6 
131 A0426 Ambulance service, advanced life support, 
non-emergency transport, level 1 (ALS 1) A 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
131 A0427 Ambulance service, advanced 
life support, emergency transport, 
level 1 (ALS 1-emergency) 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
131 A0428 Ambulance service, basic life support, 
A 
non-emergency transport, (BLS) 
A 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-15, 20.6 
131 A0429 Ambulance service, basic life support, 
emergency transport (BLS-emergency) 
A 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
131 A0430 Ambulance service, conventional air 
services, transport, one way (fixed wing) 
A 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-15, 20.3; 100-4, 
Chapter-15, 30.2; 100-4, Chapter-15, 30.2.1 
131 A0431 Ambulance service, conventional air 
services, transport, one way (rotary wing) 
A 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
131 A0432 Paramedic intercept (Pl), rural area, 
transport furnished by a volunteer 
ambulance company which is prohibited 
by state law from billing third party payers A 
BET0S: O1A Ambulance-
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
131 A0433 Advanced life support, level 2 (ALS 2) 
A 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
• Newcode
& Revised code 
Iii Carrier judgment 
Ii) Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
l. 
J 
Transportation Services Including Ambulance (A0021-A0999) 
8 A0434 Specialty care transport (SCT) 
A 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012. Q4 
8 A0435 Fixed wing air mileage, per statute mile 
A 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012. Q4 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-15, 20.3 
8 A0436 Rotary wing air mileage, per statute mile 
A 
BETOS: 01 A Ambulance 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-15, 20.3 
Bl A0888 Noncovered ambulance mileage, per mile 
(e.g., for miles traveled beyond closest 
appropriate facility) 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-15, 30.2.4 
D A0998 Ambulance response and treatment, 
no transport 
E1 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EJ A0999 Unlisted ambulance service 
BETOS: O1A Ambulance 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2 
A 
A0434 - A0999 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
8 Age 
Al- Z3 = A5C. Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
5 MIPS code 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
115 
NOTES 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
MEDICAL AND SURGICAL SUPPLIES 
(A2001-A8004) 
MATRIX FOR WOUND MANAGEMENT (PLACENTAL, EQUINE, 
SYNTHETIC) (A2001-A2025) 
1B A2001 lnnovamatrix ac, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
1B A2002 Mirragen advanced wound matrix, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Pnce established by earners 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
1B A2004 Xcellistem, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
1B A2005 Microlyte matrix, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Pnce established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022 01 
1B A2006 Novosorb synpath dermal matrix, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022 01 
B A2007 Restrata, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022. 01 
B A2008 Theragenesis, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022 Q1 
B A2009 Symphony, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price estabhshed by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
1B A2010 Apis, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A - Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
1B A2011 Supra sdrm, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022 Q2 
1B A2012 Suprathel, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022 Q2 
A2001 - A2024 
B A2013 lnnovamatrix fs, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
B A2014 Omeza collagen matrix, 
per 100 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding ClinicJ022 04 
B A2015 Phoenix wound matrix, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
B A2016 Permeaderm b, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022 04 
B A2017 Permeaderm glove, each 
' 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
B A2018 Permeaderm c, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
• B A2019 Kerecis omega3 marigen shield,
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2023. 02 
• B A2020 Ac5 advanced wound
system (ac5) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Pnce established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• B A2021 Neomatrix, per square centimeter N1 ASC N
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• B A2022 lnnovaburn or innovamatrix xi,
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
• B A2023 lnnovamatrix pd, 1 mg
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
• B A2024 Resolve matrix, per square
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Male only 
.!?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC - ASC Approved Procedure 
Al· Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Status indica tor 
11:llD MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medico/ Association. All rights reserved. 
117 
A2025-A4232 
• S A2025 Miro3d, per cubic centimeter
N1 ASC N
BETO$: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
SKIN SUBSTITUTE DEVICE (A4100) 
S A4100 Skin substitute, fda cleared as a device, 
not otherwise specified 
N 1 ASC N 
BETO$: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022 Q2; 2022, Q2 
INJECTION AND INFUSION SUPPLIES (A4206-A4232) 
S A4206 Syringe with needle, sterile, 1 cc or less, 
each 
N 
BETO$: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S A4207 Syringe with needle, sterile 2 cc, each 
N 
BETO$: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S A4208 Syringe with needle, sterile 3 cc, each 
N 
BETO$: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S A4209 Syringe with needle, sterile 5 cc or greater, 
each 
N 
BETO$: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m A4210 Needle-free injection device, each 
E1 
BETO$: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4211 Supplies for self-administered injections 
N 
BETO$: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S A4212 Non-coring needle or stylet with or 
without catheter 
N 
BETO$: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Other carrier priced 
S A4213 Syringe, sterile, 20 cc or greater, each 
N 
BETO$: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S A4215 Needle, sterile, any size, each 
N 
BETO$: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4216 Sterile water, saline and/or dextrose, 
diluenUflush, 10 ml 
mII N
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A4217 Sterile water/saline, 500 ml 
mII N 
BETO$: D1F Prosthetic/Ortholic devices 
DME Modifier: AU 
l!J A4218 Sterile saline or water, metered dose 
dispenser, 10 ml 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
l!J A4220 Refill kit for implantable infusion pump 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Other carrier priced 
S A4221 Supplies for maintenance of non-insulin 
drug infusion catheter, per week 
N 
(list drugs separately) 
mII N 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
S A4222 Infusion supplies for external drug infusion 
pump, per cassette or bag 
(list drugs separately) 
mII N 
BETO$: D1E Other □ME 
El A4223 Infusion supplies not used with external 
infusion pump, per cassette or bag 
(list drugs separately) 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
El A4224 Supplies for maintenance of insulin 
infusion catheter, per week 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
l!J A4225 Supplies for external insulin infusion pump, 
syringe type cartridge, sterile, each 
mII N 
BETO$: D1 E Other □ME 
D A4226 Supplies for maintenance of insulin infusion 
pump with dosage rate adjustment using 
therapeutic continuous glucose sensing, 
per week 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4230 Infusion set for external insulin pump, 
non needle cannula type 
BETO$: D1 E Other □ME 
Insulin pump 
l!J A4231 Infusion set for external insulin pump, 
needle type 
BETO$: D1 E Other □ME 
D A4232 Syringe with needle for external insulin 
N 
N 
pump, sterile, 3 cc 
E1 
BETO$: D1E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment 
eJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
118 
CPT" 1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
REPLACEMENT BATTERIES (A4233-A4236) 
B A4233 Replacement battery, alkaline (other than 
J cell), for use with medically necessary 
home blood glucose monitor owned by 
patient, each 
mII E 1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
B A4234 Replacement battery, alkaline, J cell, 
for use with medically necessary home 
blood glucose monitor owned by patient, 
each 
mIIE1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU 
B A4235 Replacement battery, lithium, for use with 
medically necessary home blood glucose 
monitor owned by patient, each 
mII E1 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
B A4236 Replacement battery, silver oxide, for 
use with medically necessary home 
blood glucose monitor owned by patient, 
each 
mIIE1 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
OTHER SUPPLIES INCLUDING DIABETES SUPPLIES AND 
CONTRACEPTIVES (A4238-A4290) 
B A4238 Supply allowance for adjunctive, non­
implanted continuous glucose monitor 
(cgm), includes all supplies and accessories, 
1 month supply = 1 unit of service 
mII Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF 
B A4239 Supply allowance for non-adjunctive, 
non-implanted continuous glucose monitor 
(cgm), includes all supplies and accessories, 
1 month supply = 1 unit of service 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier KF 
B A4244 Alcohol or peroxide, per pint 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
B A4245 Alcohol wipes, per box 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
B A4246 Betadine or pHisoHex solution, per pint 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B A4247 Betadine or iodine swabs/wipes, per box 
N 
BETOS:D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
B A4248 Chlorhexidine containing antiseptic, 1 ml 
N 
BETOS:P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
A4233 - A4267 
m A4250 Urine test or reagent strips or tablets 
(100 tablets or strips) 
E1 
BETOS: T1 E Lab tests - glucose 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
EJ A4252 Blood ketone test or reagent strip, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861(n) 
l!J A4253 Blood glucose test or reagent strips for home 
blood glucose monitor, per 50 strips 
Elli N
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
l!J A4255 Platforms for home blood glucose monitor, 
50 per box 
llml N 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
l!J A4256 Normal, low and high calibrator solution/ 
chips 
Elli N
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
B A4257 Replacement lens shield cartridge for use 
with laser skin piercing device, Ìch Elli E1 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
l!J A4258 Spring-powered device for lancet, 
each 
Elli N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
l!J A4259 Lancets, per box of 100 
l!ml N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
0 A4261 Cervical cap for contraceptive use 
Í E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a1 
l!J A4262 Temporary, absorbable lacrimal duct implant, 
each 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4263 Permanent, long term, non-dissolvable 
lacrimal duct implant, each 
N 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
D A4264 Permanent implantable contraceptive 
intratubal occlusion device(s) and 
delivery system 
Í E 1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4265 Paraffin, per pound 
Elli N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
D A4266 Diaphragm for contraceptive use 
'f E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A4267 Contraceptive supply, condom, male, 
each 
d' E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri' Male only 
Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Paymen t indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
Cit) MIPScode 
ASC - ASC Approved Procedure 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
119 
A4268 - A4322 
D A4268 Contraceptive supply, condom, female, 
each 
!?- E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
D A4269 Contraceptive supply, spermicide 
(e.g., foam, gel), each 
v E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
B A4270 Disposable endoscope sheath, each 
N 
BETOS: PBD Endoscopy - colonoscopy 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
B A4280 Adhesive skin support attachment for use 
with external breast prosthesis, each 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B A4281 Tubing for breast pump, replacement "0 E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
B A4282 Adapter for breast pump, 
replacement 
-9-0 E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
B A4283 Cap for breast pump bottle, 
replacement 
-9-0 E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
B A4284 Breast shield and splash protector for use 
with breast pump, replacement 
'r 0 E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
B A4285 Polycarbonate bottle for use with breast 
pump, replacement 
-9-0 E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
B A4286 Locking ring for breast pump, 
replacement 
-9-0 E 1
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
• B A4287 Disposable collection and storage bag for
breast milk, any size, any type, each 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
B A4290 Sacral nerve stimulation test lead, each 
N 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
ACCESS CATHETERS AND DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS 
(A4300-A4306) 
1:J A4300 Implantable access catheter, (e.g., venous, 
arterial, epidural subarachnoid, or peritoneal, 
etc.) external access 
N 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
B A4301 Implantable access total catheter, port/ 
reservoir (e.g., venous, arterial, epidural, 
subarachnoid, peritoneal, etc.) 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
B A4305 Disposable drug delivery system, flow rate 
of 50 ml or greater per hour 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
B A4306 Disposable drug delivery system, flow rate 
of less than 50 ml per hour 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
INCONTINENCE DEVICES AND SUPPLIES (A4310-A4360), 
SEE ALSO INCONTINENCE DEVICES AND SUPPLIES 
(A5102-A5200) 
l:J A4310 Insertion tray without drainage bag and 
without catheter (accessories only) 
lllD N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic deviwes 
1:J A4311 Insertion tray without drainage bag with 
indwelling catheter, Foley type, 2-way 
latex with coating (Teflon, silicone, silicone 
elastomer or hydrophilic, etc.) 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
1:J A4312 Insertion tray without drainage bag with 
indwelling catheter, Foley type, 2-way, 
all silicone 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
1:J A4313 Insertion tray without drainage bag with 
indwelling catheter, Foley type, 3-way, 
for continuous irrigation 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
1:J A4314 Insertion tray with drainage bag with 
indwelling catheter, Foley type, 2-way 
latex with coating (Teflon, silicone, silicone 
elastomer or hydrophilic, etc.) 
lllD N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
1:J A4315 Insertion tray with drainage bag with 
indwelling catheter, Foley type, 2-way, 
all silicone 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l:J A4316 Insertion tray with drainage bag with 
indwelling catheter, Foley type, 3-way, 
for continuous irrigation 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
1:J A4320 Irrigation tray with bulb or piston syringe, 
any purpose 
x 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
1:J A4321 Therapeutic agent for urinary catheter 
irrigation 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Ortholic devices 
1:J A4322 Irrigation syringe, bulb or piston, each lllD N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode 
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment 
l:J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!J Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
120 
CP is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
liJ A4326 Male external catheter with integral 
collection chamber, any type, each o" liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4327 Female external urinary collection device; 
meatal cup, each 
 -N
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Ii) A4328 Female external urinary collection device; 
pouch, each 
 -N
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4330 Perianal fecal collection pouch with 
adhesive, each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4331 Extension drainage tubing, any type, any 
length, with connector/adaptor, for use 
with urinary leg bag or urostomy pouch, 
each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4332 Lubricant, individual sterile packet, 
ea ch 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EJ A4333 Urinary catheter anchoring device, 
adhesive skin attachment, each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4334 Urinary catheter anchoring device, 
leg strap, each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4335 Incontinence supply; miscellaneous 
N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4336 Incontinence supply, urethral insert, 
any type, each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4337 Incontinence supply, rectal insert, 
any type,each 
N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4338 Indwelling catheter; Foley type, 2-way 
latex with coating (Teflon, silicone, silicone 
elastomer, or hydrophilic, etc.), each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4340 Indwelling catheter; specialty type, 
e.g., Goude, mushroom, wing, etc.),
each
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
• B A4341 Indwelling intraurethral drainage device with
valve, patient inserted, replacement only, 
ea ch 
 liLllJI o N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
• B A4342 Accessories for patient inserted indwelling
intraurethral drainage device with valve, 
replacement only, each 
 - o N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
A4326 - A4358 
& liJ A4344 Indwelling catheter, foley type, 
two-way, all silicone or polyurethane, 
each 
N1 liLllJI ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4346 Indwelling catheter; Foley type, three way 
for continuous irrigation, each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Foley catheter 
Bladder 
opening 
Urine drainage 
-----
port 
liJ A4349 Male external catheter, with or without 
adhesive, disposable, each 
d' liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A4351 Intermittent urinary catheter; straight tip, with 
or without coating (Teflon, silicone, silicone 
elastomer, or hydrophilic, etc.), each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4352 Intermittent urinary catheter; Goude (curved) 
tip, with or without coating (Teflon, silicone, 
silicone elastomeric, or hydrophilic, etc.), 
each 
limlN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4353 Intermittent urinary catheter, with 
insertion supplies 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4354 Insertion tray with drainage bag but 
without catheter 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4355 Irrigation tubing set for continuous bladder 
irrigation through a 3-way indwelling 
Foley catheter, each 
liml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EJ A4356 External urethral clamp or compression 
device (not to be used for catheter clamp), 
each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1 F Prostha-tic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4357 Bedside drainage bag, day or night, with or 
without anti-reflux device, with or without 
tube, each 
liLllJI N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4358 Urinary drainage bag, leg or abdomen, vinyl, 
with or without tube, with straps, each liLllJI N 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
(l Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Al -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
liml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Status indicator 
llJm MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
121 
A4360 - A4391 
Urinary drainage bag 
DJ A4360 Disposable external urethral clamp or 
compression device, with pad and/or 
pouch, each 
E3 N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
OSTOMY POUCHES AND SUPPLIES (A4361-A4437), SEE 
ALSO OSTOMY POUCHES AND SUPPLIES (A5051-A5093) 
DJ A4361 Ostomy faceplate, each 
EIIN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4362 Skin barrier; solid, 4 x 4 or equivalent; 
each 
EIIN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4363 Ostomy clamp, any type, replacement 
only, each 
E3 E1 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4364 Adhesive, liquid or equal, any type, 
per oz 
EIIN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!I A4366 Ostomy vent, any type, each 
E3 N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4367 Ostomy belt, each 
E3 N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!I A4368 Ostomy filter, any type, each 
E3 N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4369 Ostomy skin barrier, liquid 
(spray, brush, etc), per oz 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4371 Ostomy skin barrier, powder, per oz 
E3 N 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4372 Ostomy skin barrier, solid 4x4 or equivalent, 
standard wear, with built-in convexity, 
each 
EIIN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4373 Ostomy skin barrier, with flange (solid, 
flexible or accordian), with built-in convexity, 
any size, each 
E3 N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
DJ A4375 Ostomy pouch, drainable, with faceplate 
attached, plastic, each 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4376 Ostomy pouch, drainable, with faceplate 
attached, rubber, each 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4377 Ostomy pouch, drainable, for use on 
faceplate, plastic, each 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4378 Ostomy pouch, drainable, for use on 
faceplate, rubber, each 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4379 Ostomy pouch, urinary, with faceplate 
attached, plastic, each 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4380 Ostomy pouch, urinary, with faceplate 
attached, rubber, each 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4381 Ostomy pouch, urinary, for use on ' 
faceplate, plastic, each 
E3 N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4382 Ostomy pouch, urinary, for use on 
faceplate, heavy plastic, each 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4383 Ostomy pouch, urinary, for use on 
faceplate, rubber, each 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4384 Ostomy faceplate equivalent, silicone ring, 
each 
EIIN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4385 Ostomy skin barrier, solid 4x4 or equivalent, 
extended wear, without built-in convexity, 
each 
EIIN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4387 Ostomy pouch, closed, with barrier attached, 
with built-in convexity (1-piece), each Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4388 Ostomy pouch, drainable, with extended 
wear barrier attached, (1-piece), each Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4389 Ostomy pouch, drainable, with barrier 
attached, with built-in convexity (1-piece), 
each 
EIIN 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4390 Ostomy pouch, drainable, '!-'ith extended 
wear barrier attached, with built-in 
convexity (1-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4391 Ostomy pouch, urinary, with extended wear 
barrier attached (1-piece), each 
m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode
.A. Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!jJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
122 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
Iii A4392 Ostomy pouch, urinary, with standard wear 
barrier attached, with built-in convexity 
(1-piece), each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4393 Ostomy pouch, urinary, with extended wear 
barrier attached, with built-in convexity 
(1-piece), each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Ostomy pouch 
Iii A4394 Ostomy deodorant, with or without 
lubricant, for use in ostomy pouch, 
per fluid ounce 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4395 Ostomy deodorant for use in ostomy pouch, 
solid, per tablet 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4396 Ostomy belt with peristomal hernia 
support 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4398 Ostomy irrigation supply; bag, each 
ElJJ N
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4399 Ostomy irrigation supply; cone/catheter, 
with or without brush 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4400 Ostomy irrigation set 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4402 Lubricant, per ounce 
ElJJ N
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4404 Ostomy ring, each 
ElJJ N
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4405 Ostomy skin barrier, non-pectin based, 
paste, per ounce 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4406 Ostomy skin barrier, pectin-based, paste, 
per ounce 
ElJJ N
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A4407 Ostomy skin barrier, with flange (solid, 
flexible, or accordion), extended wear, with 
built-in convexity, 4 x 4 inches or smaller, 
each 
ElJJ N
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
A4392 - A4420 
Iii A4408 Ostomy skin barrier, with flange (solid, 
flexible or accordion), extended wear, with 
built-in convexity, larger than 4 x 4 inches, 
each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4409 Ostomy skin barrier, with flange (solid, 
flexible or accordion), extended wear, without 
built-in convexity, 4 x 4 inches or 
smaller, each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4410 Ostomy skin barrier, with flange (solid, 
flexible or accordion), extended wear, without 
built-in convexity, larger than 4 x 4 inches, 
each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A4411 Ostomy skin barrier, solid 4x4 or equivalent, 
extended wear, with built-in convexity, 
each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A4412 Ostomy pouch, drainable, high q_utput, for 
use on a barrier with flange (2-piece system), 
without filter, each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4413 Ostomy pouch, drainable, high output, for 
use on a barrier with flange (2-piece system), 
with filter, each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4414 Ostomy skin barrier, with flange (solid, 
flexible or accordion), without built-in 
convexity, 4 x 4 inches or smaller, 
each 
ElJJ N
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Iii A4415 Ostomy skin barrier, with flange (solid, 
flexible or accordion), without built-in 
convexity, larger than 4x4 inches, 
each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
II A4416 Ostomy pouch, closed, with barrier attached, 
with filter (1-piece), each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
II A4417 Ostomy pouch, closed, with barrier attached, 
with built-in convexity, with filter (1-piece), 
each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
II A4418 Ostomy pouch, closed; without barrier 
attached, with filter (1-piece), each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
II A4419 Ostomy pouch, closed; for use on barrier 
with non-locking flange, with filter (2-piece), 
each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
II A4420 Ostomy pouch, closed; for use on barrier 
with locking flange (2-piece), each 
ElJJ N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d' Male only 
If. Female only 
E) Age 
A2 -23 = ASC Payment indiratDr 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
llmt MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ElJJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPr-is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
123 
A4421 - A4465 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
124 
El A4421 Ostomy supply; miscellaneous 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4422 Ostomy absorbent material (sheeUpad/ 
crystal packet) for use in ostomy pouch to 
N 
thicken liquid stomal output, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A4423 Ostomy pouch, closed; for use on barrier 
with locking flange, with filter (2-piece), 
each 
DIIN 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A4424 Ostomy pouch, drainable, with barrier 
attached, with filter (1-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A4425 Ostomy pouch, drainable; for use on barrier 
with non-locking flange, with filter (2-piece 
system), each 
llID N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A4426 Ostomy pouch, drainable; for use on 
barrier with locking flange (2-piece system), 
each 
EDN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A4427 Ostomy pouch, drainable; for use on barrier 
with locking flange, with filter (2-piece 
system), each 
m N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A4428 Ostomy pouch, urinary, with extended wear 
barrier attached, with faucet-type tap with 
valve (1-piece), each 
ED N 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
II A4429 Ostomy pouch, urinary, with barrier attached, 
with built-in convexity, with faucet-type tap 
with valve (1-piece), each 
ED N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
II A4430 Ostomy pouch, urinary, with extended wear 
barrier attached, with built-in convexity, 
with faucet-type tap with valve (1-piece), 
each 
DIIN 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A4431 Ostomy pouch, urinary; with barrier attached, 
with faucet-type tap with valve (1-piece), 
each 
· 
EmlN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
II A4432 Ostomy pouch, urinary; for use on barrier 
with non-locking flange, with faucet-type tap 
with valve (2-piece), each 
ED N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
II A4433 Ostomy pouch, urinary; for use on barrier 
with locking flange (2-piece), each 
ED N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A4434 Ostomy pouch, urinary; for use on barrier 
with locking flange, with faucet-type tap 
with valve (2-piece), each 
ED N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B A4435 Ostomy pouch, drainable, high output, with 
extended wear barrier (1-piece system), 
with or without filter, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4436 Irrigation supply; sleeve, reusable, 
per month 
DIIN 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4437 Irrigation supply; sleeve, disposable, 
per month 
EDN 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
VARIOUS MEDICAL SUPPLIES INCLUDING TAPES AND 
SURGICAL DRESSINGS (A4450-A4608) 
DJ A4450 Tape, non-waterproof, per 18 square 
inches 
EDN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: AU,AV,AW 
DJ A4452 Tape, waterproof, 
per 18 square inches 
, ED N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: AU,AV,AW 
II A4453 Rectal catheter for use with the manual 
pump-operated enema system, 
replacement only 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
N 
liJ A4455 Adhesive remover or solvent (for tape, 
cement or other adhesive), per ounce m N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DJ A4456 Adhesive remover, wipes, any type, 
each 
EDN 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• EJ A4457 Enema tube, with or without adapter,
any type, replacement only, each 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Statute: 1861s8 
El A4458 Enema bag with tubing, reusable 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
II A4459 Manual pump-operated enema system, 
includes balloon, catheter and all 
accessories, reusable, any type 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
II A4461 Surgical dressing holder, non-reusable, 
N 
N 
each 
DIIN 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
El A4463 Surgical dressing holder, reusable, 
each 
DIIN 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
El A4465 Non-elastic binder for extremity 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
.. Revised code 
El Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CP' is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
£) A4467 Belt, strap, sleeve, garment, or covering, 
any type 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• EJ A4468 Exsuffiation belt, includes all supplies and 
accessories 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1834(A)(3) 
l:J A4470 Gravlee jet washer 
i N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[!J A4480 Vabra aspirator 
 N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[!J A4481 Tracheostoma filter, any type, any size, 
each 
GIi N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
[!J A4483 Moisture exchanger, disposable, for use 
with invasive mechanical ventilation 
GIi N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
£) A4490 Surgical stockings above knee length, 
each 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
£) A4495 Surgical stockings thigh length, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
£) A4500 Surgical stockings below knee length, 
each 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
£) A4510 Surgical stockings full length, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li9 A4520 Incontinence garment, any type, 
(e.g., brief, diaper), each 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• EJ A4540 Distal transcutaneous electrical nerve
stimulator, stimulates peripheral nerves of 
the upper arm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861(n) 
• B A4541 Monthly supplies for use of device coded at
E0733 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
• B A4542 Supplies and accessories for external
upper limb tremor stimulator of the peripheral 
nerves of the wrist 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
[!J A4550 Surgical trays 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using natior:ial RVUs 
B 
A4467 -A4559 
li9 A4553 Non-disposable underpads, all sizes 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
£) A4554 Disposable underpads, all sizes 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O A4555 Electrode/transducer for use with electrical 
stimulation device used for cancer treatment, 
replacement only 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B A4556 Electrodes, (e.g., apnea monitor), 
per pair 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
B A4557 Lead wires, (e.g., apnea monitor), 
per pair 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
B A4558 Conductive gel or paste, for use with 
electrical device (e.g., TENS, NMES), 
per oz 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Arm sling 
B A4559 Coupling gel or paste, for use with 
ultrasound device, per oz 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
mIIN 
mIIN 
mTIN 
mTIN 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
Q Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
mTI Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A• Y = APC Status indicator 
1ml MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
125 
A4560 - A4614 
• EJ A4560 Neuromuscular electrical stimulator (nmes),
disposable, replacement only 
E1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 (n) 
Coding Clinic: 2023. Q2 
B A4561 Pessary, rubber, any type 
'? GIi N
BETOS: D1 F Prosthelic/Orthotic devices 
Pessary 
B A4562 Pessary, non rubber, any type 
-N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthelic/Orthotic devices 
B A4563 Rectal control system for vaginal insertion, 
for long term use, includes pump and 
all supplies and accessories, any type 
each 
iBA 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthelic/Ortholic devices 
B A4565 Slings 
GIi N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
D A4566 Shoulder sling or vest design, abduction 
restrainer, with or without swathe control, 
prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
E 1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A4570 Splint 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Reasonable charge 
II A4575 Topical hyperbaric oxygen chamber, 
disposable 
A 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A4580 Cast supplies (e.g., plaster) 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D A4590 Special casting material (e.g., fiberglass) E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m A4595 Electrical stimulator supplies, 2 lead, 
per month, (e.g., TENS, NMES) 
ED N
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
B A4596 Cranial electrotherapy stimulation (ces) 
system supplies and accessories, 
per month 
E1DI N 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q4 
B A4600 Sleeve for intermittent limb compression 
device, replacement only, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
II A4601 Lithium ion battery, rechargeable, for non-
prosthetic use, replacement 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
B A4602 Replacement battery for external infusion 
pump owned by patient, lithium, 1.5 volt, 
each 
E1D1 N 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
B A4604 Tubing with integrated healing element 
for use with positive airway pressure 
device 
E1DI N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A4605 Tracheal suction catheter, closed system, 
each 
E1DI N 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
II A4606 Oxygen probe for use with oximeter device, 
replacement 
N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B A4608 Transtracheal oxygen catheter, each 
E1DI N 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
RESPIRATORY SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT (A4611-A4629) 
EJ A4611 Battery, heavy duty; replacement for patient 
owned ventilator 
E1 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1834a3A 
EJ A4612 Battery cables; replacement for patient-
owned ventilator 
E 1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1834a3A 
EJ A4613 Battery charger; replacement for patient-
owned ventilator 
E 1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1834a3A 
B A4614 Peak expiratory flow rate meter, hand 
held 
E1DI N 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
• Newcode
.... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
E) Non-covered by Medicare
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
126 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
(_ 
L 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
m A4615 Cannula, nasal 
llml N 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Nasal cannula 
m A4616 Tubing (oxygen), per foot 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
llml N 
m A4617 Mouth piece 
ED N 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
m A4618 Breathing circuits 
llml N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
m A4619 Face tent 
llml N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
m A4620 Variable concentration mask 
llml N 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
m A4623 Tracheostomy, inner cannula 
llml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A4624 Tracheal suction catheter, any type other 
than closed system, each 
llml N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
m A4625 Tracheostomy care kit for new 
tracheostomy 
llml N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l:J A4626 Tracheostomy cleaning brush, each 
llml N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
eJ A4627 Spacer, bag or reservoir, with or without 
mask, for use with metered dose inhaler E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
..t. El A4628 Oral and/or oropharyngeal suction 
catheter, each 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
llmlN 
A4615 - A4640 
m A4629 Tracheostomy care kit for established 
tracheostomy 
ED N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
REPLACEMENT PARTS (A4630-A4640) 
m A4630 Replacement batteries, medically necessary, 
transcutaneous electrical stimulator, owned 
by patient 
llml E1
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
l9 A4633 Replacement bulb/lamp for ultraviolet light 
therapy system, each 
llml E 1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier. NU 
El A4634 Replacement bulb for therapeutic light box, 
tabletop model 
N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
l!J A4635 Underarm pad, crutch, replacement, 
each 
' 
llml E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
m A4636 Replacement, handgrip, cane, crutch, 
or walker, each 
llml E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KE,NU,RR,UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
m A4637 Replacement, tip, cane, crutch, walker, 
each. 
llmlE1 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KE,NU,RR,UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
l9 A4638 Replacement battery for patient-owned 
ear pulse generator, each 
llml E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
El A4639 Replacement pad for infrared heating 
pad system, each 
llml E1 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier· RR 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-5, 20.4 
m A4640 Replacement pad for use with medically 
necessary alternating pressure pad 
owned by patient 
llml E1
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE. 
d' Male only 
-9- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -23 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
t:lllJ MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
127 
A4641 - A4680 
DIAGNOSTIC RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS (A4641-A4642), 
SEE ALSO DIAGNOSTIC AND THERAPEUTIC 
RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS (A9500-A9800) 
II A4641 Radiopharmaceutical, diagnostic, 
not otherwise classified 
N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
II A4642 Indium ln-111 satumomab pendetide, 
diagnostic, per study dose, up to 
6 millicuries 
N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02; 2005, 04 
OTHER SUPPLIES (A4648-A4652) 
II A4648 Tissue marker, implantable, any type, 
each 
N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 03; 2018, 02 
II A4649 Surgical supply; miscellaneous 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
II A4650 Implantable radiation dosimeter, each 
N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
l!J A4651 Calibrated microcapillary tube, each 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4652 Microcapillary tube sealant 
N 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
DIALYSIS EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES (A4653-A4932) 
II A4653 Peritoneal dialysis catheter anchoring 
device, belt, each 
N 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4657 Syringe, with or without needle, each 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-a, 60.6 
N 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
l!J A4660 Sphygmomanometer/blood pressure 
apparatus with cuff and stethoscope 
N 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4663 Blood pressure cuff only 
N 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m A4670 Automatic blood pressure monitor 
E1 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Blood pressure cuff 
l!J A4671 Disposable cycler set used with cycler 
dialysis machine, each 
B 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4672 Drainage extension line, sterile, for dialysis, 
each 
8 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4673 Extension line with easy lock connectors, 
used with dialysis 
B 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4674 Chemicals/antiseptics solution used to clean/ 
sterilize dialysis equipment, per 8 oz 
B 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4680 Activated carbon filter for hemodialysis, 
each 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
N 
• Newcode
.A. Revised code 
1:1 Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic-
128 
CPT" Is a registered trademark of the American Medical Assoc,ation. All rights reserved. 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
l!J A4690 Dialyzer (artificial kidneys), all types, 
all sizes, for hemodialysis, each 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4706 Bicarbonate concentrate, solution, 
for hemodialysis, per gallon 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4707 Bicarbonate concentrate, powder, for 
hemodialysis, per packet 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4708 Acetate concentrate solution, for 
hemodialysis, per gallon 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
N 
N 
N 
N 
l!J A4709 Acid concentrate, solution, for hemodialysis, 
per gallon 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4714 Treated water (deionized, distilled, or reverse 
osmosis) for peritoneal dialysis, per gallon N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4719 "Y set" tubing for peritoneal dialysis 
N 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4720 Dialysate solution, any concentration of 
dextrose, fluid volume greater than 
249 cc, but less than or equal to 999 cc, 
for peritoneal dialysis 
N 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4721 Dialysate solution, any concentration of 
dextrose, fluid volume greater than 
999 cc but less than or equal to 1999 cc, 
for peritoneal dialysis 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
A4690 - A4736 
l!J A4722 Dialysate solution, any concentration of 
dextrose, fluid volume greater than 
1999 cc but less than or equal to 2999 cc, 
for peritoneal dialysis 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4723 Dialysate solution, any concentration of 
dextrose, fluid volume greater than 
2999 cc but less than or equal to 3999 cc, 
for peritoneal dialysis 
N 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4724 Dialysate solution, any concentration of 
dextrose, fluid volume greater than 
3999 cc but less than or equal to 4999 cc, 
for peritoneal dialysis 
N 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
' 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4725 Dialysate solution, any concentration of 
dextrose, fluid volume greater than 
4999 cc but less than or equal to 5999 cc, 
for peritoneal dialysis 
N 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4726 Dialysate solution, any concentration of 
dextrose, fluid volume greater than 5999 cc, 
for peritoneal dialysis 
N 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
ml A4728 Dialysate solution, non-dextrose containing, 
500 ml 
B 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4730 Fistula cannulation set for hemodialysis, 
each 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4736 Topical anesthetic, for dialysis, per gram 
N 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
cl' Maleonly 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC App roved P roc edur e 
A2 - 23 = ASC Paym ent indicator 
1!m1 Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Stat us indicator 
t:111 MIPS code 
CPT" 1s a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
129 
A4737 -A4929 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
130 
DJ A4737 Injectable anesthetic, for dialysis, 
per 10 ml 
BETOS: P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
DJ A4740 Shunt accessory, for hemodialysis, 
N 
any type, each 
N 
BETOS: P98 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4750 Blood tubing, arterial or venous, for 
hemodialysis, each 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DJ A4755 Blood tubing, arterial and venous combined, 
for hemodialysis, each 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4760 Dialysate solution test kit, for peritoneal 
dialysis, any type, each 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4765 Dialysate concentrate, powder, additive for 
peritoneal dialysis, per packet 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DJ A4766 Dialysate concentrate, solution, additive for 
peritoneal dialysis, per 10 ml 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
(D A4770 Blood collection tube, vacuum, for dialysis, 
per50 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(D A4771 Serum clotting time tube, for dialysis, 
per50 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DJ A4772 Blood glucose test strips, for dialysis, 
per50 
N 
BETOS: P98 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(D A4773 Occult blood test strips, for dialysis, per 50 N 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4774 Ammonia test strips, for dialysis, per 50 
BETOS:P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4802 Protamine sulfate, for hemodialysis, 
per 50 mg 
BETOS:P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4860 Disposable catheter tips for peritoneal 
dialysis, per 10 
BETOS:P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4870 Plumbing and/or electrical work for home 
hemodialysis equipment 
BETOS:P98 Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4890 Contracts, repair and maintenance, ' 
for hemodialysis equipment 
BETOS:P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m Ms11 Drain bag/bottle, for dialysis, each 
BETOS:P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4913 Miscellaneous dialysis supplies, not 
otherwise specified 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A491 B Venous pressure clamp, for hemodialysis, 
each 
BETOS:P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4927 Gloves, non-sterile, per 100 
BETOS:P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J A4928 Surgical mask, per 20 
BETOS: P9B 
Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately price.a by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A4929 Tourniquet for dialysis, each 
BETOS:P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
Ii Carrier judgment 
6J Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
ljg Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
-
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2OO1-A8004) 
liJ A4930 Gloves, sterile, per pair 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
It A4931 Oral thermometer, reusable, 
any type, each 
N 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
It A4932 Rectal thermometer, reusable, any type, 
each 
N 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
OSTOMY POUCHES AND SUPPLIES (A5051-A5093), SEE 
ALSO OSTOMY POUCHES AND SUPPLIES (A4361-A4437) 
liJ A5051 Ostomy pouch, closed; with barrier 
attached (1-piece), each 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5052 Ostomy pouch, closed; without barrier 
attached (1-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5053 Ostomy pouch, closed; for use on 
faceplate, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A5054 Ostomy pouch, closed; for use on barrier 
with flange (2-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A5055 Stoma cap 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A5056 Ostomy pouch, drainable, with extended 
wear barrier attached, with filter, (1-piece), 
each 
EmlN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5057 Ostomy pouch, drainable, with extended 
wear barrier attached, with built in convexity, 
with filter, (1-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
It A5061 Ostomy pouch, drainable; with barrier 
attached, (1-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A5062 Ostomy pouch, drainable; without barrier 
attached (1-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5063 Ostomy pouch, drainable; for use on barrier 
with flange (2-piece system), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5071 Ostomy pouch, urinary; with barrier 
attached (1-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5072 Ostomy pouch, urinary; without barrier 
attached (1-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
A4930 - A5200 
liJ A5073 Ostomy pouch, urinary; for use on barrier 
with flange (2-piece), each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5081 Stoma plug or seal, any type 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A5082 Continent device; catheter for continent 
stoma 
EmlN 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
It A5083 Continent device, stoma absorptive cover 
for continent stoma 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5093 Ostomy accessory; convex insert 
Eml N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
INCONTINENCE DEVICES AND SUPPLIES (A5102-A5200), 
SEE ALSO INCONTINENCE DEVICES AND SUPPLIES 
(A431 0-A4360) 
liJ A5102 Bedside drainage bottle with or without 
tubing, rigid or expandable, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic 'aevices 
liJ A5105 Urinary suspensory with leg bag, with or 
without tube, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5112 Urinary drainage bag, leg or abdomen, 
latex, with or without tube, with straps, 
each 
EmlN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5113 Leg strap; latex, replacement only, 
per set 
Eml E1 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El A5114 Leg strap; foam or fabric, replacement only, 
per set 
EDE1 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5120 Skin barrier, wipes or swabs, each 
Eml N 
BETOSi D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: AU,AV 
liJ A5121 Skin barrier; solid, 6 x 6 or equivalent, 
each 
EmlN 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5122 Skin barrier; solid, 8 x 8 or equivalent, 
each 
EmlN 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
liJ A5126 Adhesive or non-adhesive; disk or foam 
pad 
EmlN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ID A5131 Appliance cleaner, incontinence and 
ostomy appliances, per 16 oz. 
ED N
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ID A5200 Percutaneous catheter/tube anchoring 
device, adhesive skin attachment 
Eml N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
cl Maleonly 
¥ Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -23 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = AP C Stat us indicator 
ASC = ASC App roved Procedur e 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
l1Jm MIPS code 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
131 
ASSOO - A6154 
DIABETIC FOOTWEAR (A5500-A5514) 
I!] A5500 For diabetics only, fitting (including follow­
up ), custom preparation and supply of 
off-the-shelf depth-inlay shoe manufactured 
to accommodate multi- density insert(s), 
per shoe 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A5501 For diabetics only, fitting (including follow­
up ), custom preparation and supply of shoe 
molded from cast(s) of patient's foot 
(custom molded shoe), per shoe 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A5503 For diabetics only, modification (including 
fitting) of off-the-shelf depth-inlay shoe or 
custom-molded shoe with roller or rigid 
rocker bottom, per shoe 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A5504 For diabetics only, modification (including 
fitting) of off-the-shelf depth-inlay shoe 
or custom-molded shoe with wedge(s), 
per shoe 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A5505 For diabetics only, modification (including 
fitting) of off-the-shelf depth-inlay shoe or 
custom-molded shoe with metatarsal bar, 
per shoe 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A5506 For diabetics only, modification (including 
fitting) of off-the-shelf depth-inlay shoe or 
custom-molded shoe with off-set heel(s), 
per shoe 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A5507 For diabetics only, not otherwise specified 
modification (including fitting) of off-the-shelf 
depth-inlay shoe or custom-molded shoe, 
per shoe 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A5508 For diabetics only, deluxe feature of off-the­
shelf depth-inlay shoe or custom-molded 
shoe, per shoe 
Y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A5510 For diabetics only, direct formed, 
compression molded to patient's foot without 
external heat source, multiple-density 
insert(s) prefabricated, per shoe 
N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
l!J A5512 For diabetics only, multiple density insert, 
direct formed, molded to foot after external 
heat source of 230 degrees Fahrenheit 
or higher, total contact with patient's foot, 
including arch, base layer minimum of 1/4 
inch material of shore a 35 durometer or 3/16 
inch material of shore a 40 durometer 
(or higher), prefabricated, each 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
l!J A5513 For diabetics only, multiple density insert, 
custom molded from model of patient's foot, 
total contact with patient's foot, including 
arch, base layer minimum of 3/16 inch 
material of shore a 35 durometer (or higher), 
includes arch filler and other shaping 
material, custom fabricated, each 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J A5514 For diabetics only, multiple density insert, 
made by direct carving with cam technology 
from a rectified cad model created from a 
digitized scan of the patient, total contact 
with patient's foot, including arch, base layer 
minimum of 3/16 inch material of shore a 
35 durometer (or higher), includes arch 
filler and other shaping material, custom 
fabricated, each 
Ell Y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
MISCELLANEOUS DRESSING AND WOUND SUPPLIES 
(A6000-A6208) 
1i!iJ A6000 Non-contact wound warming wound cver 
for use with the non-contact wound warming 
device and warming card 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J A6010 Collagen based wound filler, dry form, 
sterile, per gram of collagen 
Ell N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
l!J A6011 Collagen based wound filler, gel/paste, 
per gram of collagen 
Ell N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l!J A6021 Collagen dressing, sterile, size 16 sq. in. 
or less, each 
Ell N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l!J A6022 Collagen dressing, sterile, size more than 
16 sq. in. but less than or equal to 48 sq. in., 
each 
Ell N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l!J A6023 Collagen dressing, sterile, size more than 
48 sq. in., each 
Ell N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
I!] A6024 Collagen dressing wound filler, sterile, 
per 6 inches 
Ell N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
(:I A6025 Gel sheet for dermal or epidermal 
application, (e.g., silicone, hydrogel, other), 
each 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!] A6154 Wound pouch, each 
Ell N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
• Newcode
.& Revised code 
l9 Carrier judgment 
I!) Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Chnic 
132 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
'I. 
C. 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
l=J A6196 Alginate or other fiber gelling dressing, 
wound cover, sterile, pad size 16 sq. in. or 
less, each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6197 Alginate or other fiber gelling dressing, 
wound cover, sterile, pad size more than 
16 sq. in. but less than or equal to 
48 sq. in., each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6198 Alginate or other fiber gelling dressing, 
wound cover, sterile, pad size more than 
48 sq. in., each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6199 Alginate or other fiber gelling dressing, 
wound filler, sterile, per 6 inches 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6203 Composite dressing, sterile, pad size 
16 sq. in. or less, with any size adhesive 
border, each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6204 Composite dressing, sterile, pad size more 
than 16 sq. in. but less than or equal to 
48 sq. in., with any size adhesive border, 
each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6205 Composite dressing, sterile, pad size more 
than 48 sq. in., with any size adhesive 
border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6206 Contact layer, sterile, 16 sq. in. or less, 
each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6207 Contact layer, sterile, more than 16 sq. in. 
but less than or equal to 48 sq. in., 
each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6208 Contact layer, sterile, more than 48 sq. in., 
each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
FOAM DRESSINGS (A6209-A6215) 
l=J A6209 Foam dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size 16 sq. in. or less, without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
ED N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6210 Foam dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size more than 16 sq. in. but less than or 
equal to 48 sq. in., without adhesive border, 
each dressing 
ED N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6211 Foam dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size more than 48 sq. in., without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
A6196 - A6223 
l=J A6212 Foam dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size 16 sq. in. or less, with any size adhesive 
border, each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6213 Foam dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size more than 16 sq. in. but less than or 
equal to 48 sq. in., with any size adhesive 
border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6214 Foam dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size more than 48 sq. in., with any size 
adhesive border, each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6215 Foam dressing, wound filler, sterile, 
per gram 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
GAUZE DRESSINGS (A6216-A6233) 
l=J A6216 Gauze, non-impregnated, non-sterile, pad 
size 16 sq. in. or leos, without a.ehesive
border, each dressing 
ED N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6217 Gauze, non-impregnated, non-sterile, pad 
size more than 16 sq. in. but less than or 
equal to 48 sq. in., without adhesive border, 
each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6218 Gauze, non-impregnated, non-sterile, pad 
size more than 48 sq. in., without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6219 Gauze, non-impregnated, sterile, pad size 
16 sq. in. or less, with any size adhesive 
border, each dressing 
ED N
BETOS: D1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6220 Gauze, non-impregnated, sterile, pad size 
more than 16 sq. in. but less than or equal 
to 48 sq. in., with any size adhesive border, 
each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6221 Gauze, non-impregnated, sterile, pad size 
more than 48 sq. in., with any size adhesive 
border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l=J A6222 Gauze, impregnated with other than water, 
normal saline, or hydrogel, sterile, pad size 
16 sq. in. or less, without adhesive border, 
each dressing 
ED N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6223 Gauze, impregnated with other than water, 
normal saline, or hydrogel, sterile, pad size 
more than 16 sq. in., but less than or equal 
to 48 sq. in., without adhesive border, each 
dressing 
EDN 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
rf' Male only 
5 Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Al-Z3 = ASA:. Payment indiGltDr 
l!ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
i!m MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
133 
A6224 - A6251 
DJ A6224 Gauze, impregnated with other than water, 
normal saline, or hydrogel, sterile, pad 
size more than 48 sq. in., without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6228 Gauze, impregnated, water or normal saline, 
sterile, pad size 16 sq. in. or less, without 
adhesive border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6229 Gauze, impregnated, water or normal saline, 
sterile, pad size more than 16 sq. in. but less 
than or equal to 48 sq. in., without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
DJ A6230 Gauze, impregnated, water or normal saline, 
sterile, pad size more than 48 sq. in., without 
adhesive border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6231 Gauze, impregnated, hydrogel, for direct 
wound contact, sterile, pad size 16 sq. in. or 
less, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
DJ A6232 Gauze, impregnated, hydrogel, for direct 
wound contact, sterile, pad size greater than 
16 sq. in., but less than or equal to 48 sq. in., 
each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6233 Gauze, impregnated, hydrogel, for direct 
wound contact, sterile, pad size more than 
48 sq. in., each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
HYDROCOLLOID DRESSINGS (A6234-A6241) 
l:J A6234 Hydrocolloid dressing, wound cover, sterile, 
pad size 16 sq. in. or less, without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
lll3 N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6235 Hydrocolloid dressing, wound cover, sterile, 
pad size more than 16 sq. in. but less than or 
equal to 48 sq. in., without adhesive border, 
each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l!J A6236 Hydrocolloid dressing, wound cover, sterile, 
pad size more than 48 sq. in., without 
adhesive border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l!J A6237 Hydrocolloid dressing, wound cover, sterile, 
pad size 16 sq. in. or less, with any size 
adhesive border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l!J A6238 Hydrocolloid dressing, wound cover, sterile, 
pad size more than 16 sq. in. but less than 
or equal to 48 sq. in., with any size adhesive 
border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
DJ A6239 Hydrocolloid dressing, wound cover, sterile, 
pad size more than 48 sq. in., with any size 
adhesive border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6240 Hydrocolloid dressing, wound filler, paste, 
sterile, per ounce 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l!J A6241 Hydrocolloid dressing, wound filler, dry form, 
sterile, per gram 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
HYDROGEL DRESSINGS (A6242-A6248) 
l!J A6242 Hydrogel dressing, wound cover, sterile, 
pad size 16 sq. in. or less, without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6243 Hydrogel dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size more than 16 sq. in. but less than or 
equal to 48 sq. in., without adhesive border, 
each dressing 
, mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6244 Hydrogel dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size more than 48 sq. in., without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
DJ A6245 Hydrogel dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size 16 sq. in. or less, with any size adhesive 
border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6246 Hydrogel dressing, wound cover, sterile, pad 
size more than 16 sq. in. but less than or 
equal to 48 sq. in., with any size adhesive 
border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6247 Hydrogel dressing, wound cover, sterile, 
pad size more than 48 sq. in., with any size 
adhesive border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6248 Hydrogel dressing, wound filler, gel, 
per fluid ounce 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
OTHER DRESSINGS, COVERINGS, AND WOUND TREATMENT 
SUPPLIES (A6250-A6412) 
l:J A6250 Skin sealants, protectants, moisturizers, 
ointments, any type, any size 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J A6251 Specialty absorptive dressing, wound cover, 
sterile, pad size 16 sq. in. or less, without 
adhesive border, each dressing 
mII N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
I! Carrier judgment 
l:J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
134 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
l:J A6252 Specialty absorptive dressing, wound cover, 
sterile, pad size more than 16 sq. in. but less 
than or equal to 48 sq. in., without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6253 Specialty absorptive dressing, wound cover, 
sterile, pad size more than 48 sq. in., without 
adhesive border, each dressing 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
m A6254 Specialty absorptive dressing, wound cover, 
sterile, pad size 16 sq. in. or less, with any 
size adhesive border, each dressing 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ID A6255 Specialty absorptive dressing, wound cover, 
sterile, pad size more than 16 sq. in. but 
less than or equal to 48 sq. in., with any size 
adhesive border, each dressing 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ID A6256 Specialty absorptive dressing, wound cover, 
sterile, pad size more than 48 sq. in., with 
any size adhesive border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
m A6257 Transparent film, sterile, 16 sq. in. or less, 
each dressing 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
m A6258 Transparent film, sterile, more than 16 sq. in. 
but less than or equal to 48 sq. in., each 
dressing 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
m A6259 Transparent film, sterile, more than 
48 sq. in., each dressing 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
m A6260 Wound cleansers, any type, any size 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m A6261 Wound filler, gel/paste, per fluid ounce, 
not otherwise specified 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
m A6262 Wound filler, dry form, per gram, not 
otherwise specified 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ID A6266 Gauze, impregnated, other than water, 
normal saline, or zinc paste, sterile, 
any width, per linear yard 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ID A6402 Gauze, non-impregnated, sterile, pad size 
16 sq. in. or less, without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6403 Gauze, non-impregnated, sterile, pad size 
more than 16 sq. in. less than or equal to 
48 sq. in., without adhesive border, 
each dressing 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
A6252 - A6447 
m A6404 Gauze, non-impregnated, sterile, pad size 
more than 48 sq. in., without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6407 Packing strips, non-impregnated, sterile, 
up to 2 inches in width, per linear yard E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6410 Eye pad, sterile, each 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l:J A6411 Eye pad, non-sterile, each 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6412 Eye patch, occlusive, each 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BANDAGES (A6413-A6461) 
El A6413 Adhesive bandage, first-aid type, any size, 
N 
each 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical S\lpplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 (s)(5) 
B A6441 Padding bandage, non-elastic, 
non-woven/non-knitted, width greater than 
or equal to 3 inches and less than 5 inches, 
per yard 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6442 Conforming bandage, non-elastic, knitted/ 
woven, non-sterile, width less than 3 inches, 
per yard 
E.llJ N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6443 Conforming bandage, non-elastic, knitted/ 
woven, non-sterile, width greater than or 
equal to 3 inches and less than 5 inches, 
per yard 
E.llJ N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6444 Conforming bandage, non-elastic, knitted/ 
woven, non-sterile, width greater than or 
equal to 5 inches, per yard 
E.llJ N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6445 Conforming bandage, non-elastic, knitted/ 
woven, sterile, width less than 3 inches, 
per yard 
E.llJ N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6446 Conforming bandage, non-elastic, knitted/ 
woven, sterile, width greater than or 
equal to 3 inches and less than 5 inches, 
per yard 
E.llJ N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6447 Conforming bandage, non-elastic, knitted/ 
woven, sterile, width greater than or equal 
to 5 inches, per yard 
E.llJ N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
cl' Maleonly 
Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC App roved P roc edur e 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Paym ent indicator 
l!llDI Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = AP C Stat us indicator
CllD MIPS code
CPr-is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
135 
A6448 - A6510 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
136 
B A6448 Light compression bandage, elastic, 
knitted/woven, width less than 3 inches, 
per yard 
l!IDN 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6449 Light compression bandage, elastic, 
knitted/woven, width greater than or 
equal to 3 inches and less than 5 inches, 
per yard 
l!IDN 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6450 Light compression bandage, elastic, knitted/ 
woven, width greater than or equal to 
5 inches, per yard 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6451 Moderate compression bandage, elastic, 
knitted/woven, load resistance of 1.25 to 
1.34 foot pounds at 50% maximum stretch, 
width greater than or equal to 3 inches 
and less than 5 inches, per yard 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Elastic ACE compression bandage 
B A6452 High compression bandage, elastic, 
knitted/woven, load resistance greater 
than or equal to 1.35 foot pounds at 50% 
maximum stretch, width greater than or 
equal to 3 inches and less than 5 inches, 
per yard 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6453 Self-adherent bandage, elastic, non-knitted/ 
non-woven, width less than 3 inches, 
per yard 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6454 Self-adherent bandage, elastic, 
non-knitted/non-woven, width greater than 
or equal to 3 inches and less than 5 inches, 
per yard 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6455 Self-adherent bandage, elastic, non-knitted/ 
non-woven, width greater than or equal to 
5 inches, per yard 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6456 Zinc paste impregnated bandage, non­
elastic, knitted/woven, width greater than or 
equal to 3 inches and less than 5 inches, 
per yard 
l!IDN 
BETOS: D1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6457 Tubular dressing with or without elastic, 
any width, per linear yard 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6460 Synthetic resorbable wound dressing, sterile, 
pad size 16 sq. in. or less, without adhesive 
border, each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B A6461 Synthetic resorbable wound dressing, sterile, 
pad size more than 16 sq. in. but less than or 
equal to 48 sq. in., without adhesive border, 
each dressing 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
COMPRESSION GARMENTS AND STOCKINGS (A6501-A6589) 
liJ A6501 Compression burn garment, bodysui._ 
(head to foot), custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6502 Compression burn garment, chin strap, 
custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6503 Compression burn garment, facial hood, 
custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6504 Compression burn garment, glove to wrist, 
custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6505 Compression burn garment, glove to elbow, 
custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6506 Compression burn garment, glove to axilla, 
custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6507 Compression burn garment, foot to knee 
length, custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6508 Compression burn garment, foot to thigh 
length, custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6509 Compression burn garment, upper trunk to 
waist including arm openings (vest), 
custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
liJ A6510 Compression burn garment, trunk, including 
arms down to leg openings (leotard), 
custom fabricated 
lllD N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
• Newcode 
& Revised code 
DJI Carrier judgment 
liJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clime' 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Associatian. All rights reserved. 
L 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
l!J A6511 Compression burn garment, lower trunk 
including leg openings (panty), custom 
fabricated 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
l!J A6512 Compression burn garment, not otherwise 
classified 
N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml A6513 Compression burn mask, face and/or neck, 
plastic or equal, custom fabricated 
Eml B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• ml A6520 Gradient compression garment, glove,
padded, for nighttime use, each 
• ml A6521 Gradient compression garment, glove,
padded, for nighttime use, custom, each 
• ml A6522 Gradient compression garment, arm,
padded, for nighttime use, each 
• ml A6523 Gradient compression garment, arm,
padded, for nighttime use, custom, each 
• ml A6524 Gradient compression garment, lower leg 
and foot, padded, for nighttime use, each 
• ml A6525 Gradient compression garment, lower leg 
and foot, padded, for nighttime use, 
custom, each 
• ml A6526 Gradient compression garment, full leg and 
foot, padded, for nighttime use, each 
• ml A6527 Gradient compression garment, full leg and
foot, padded, for nighttime use, custom, each 
• ml A6528 Gradient compression garment, bra, for
nighttime use, each 
• ml A6529 Gradient compression garment, bra, for
nighttime use, custom, each 
ml A6530 Gradient compression stocking, 
below knee, 18-30 mmHg, each 
E1 
A l!J A6531 Gradient compression stocking, below knee, 
30-40 mmhg, used as a surgical
dressing, each 
Eml N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies
DME Modifier: AW
A l!J A6532 Gradient compression stocking, below knee, 
40-50 mmhg, used as a surgical
dressing, each
Eml N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies
DME Modifier: AW 
ml A6533 Gradient compression stocking, thigh length, 
18-30 mmHg, each 
E1 
ml A6534 Gradient compression stocking, thigh length, 
30-40 mmHg, each 
E1 
A ml A6535 Gradient compression stocking, thigh length, 
40 mmhg or greater, each 
E1 
ml A6536 Gradient compression stocking, full length/ 
chap style, 18-30 mmHg, each 
E1 
ml A6537 Gradient compression stocking, full length/ 
chap style, 30-40 mmHg, each 
E1 
A6511 - A6565 
A ml A6538 Gradient compression stocking, full length/ 
chap style, 40 mmhg or greater, each 
E1 
ml A6539 Gradient compression stocking, waist 
length, 18-30 mmHg, each 
E1 
ml A6540 Gradient compression stocking, waist 
length, 30-40 mmHg, each 
E1 
A ml A6541 Gradient compression stocking, waist 
length, 40 mmhg or greater, each 
E1 
ml A6544 Gradient compression stocking, 
garter belt 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A l!J A6545 Gradient compression wrap, non-elastic, 
below knee, 30-50 mmhg, used as a 
surgical dressing, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
DME Modifier: AW 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
A ml A6549 Gradient compression garment, 
not otherwise specified 
' 
E 1 
ml A6550 Wound care set, for negative pressure 
wound therapy electrical pump, includes 
all supplies and accessories 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
• ml A6552 Gradient compression stocking, below knee,
30-40 mmhg, each
• ml A6553 Gradient compression stocking, below knee,
30-40 mmhg, custom, each
• ml A6554 Gradient compression stocking, below knee,
40 mmhg or greater, each 
• ml A6555 Gradient compression stocking, below knee,
40 mmhg or greater, custom, each 
• ml A6556 Gradient compression stocking, thigh length,
18-30 mmhg, custom, each
• ml A6557 Gradient compression stocking, thigh length,
30-40 mmhg, custom, each
• ml A6558 Gradient compression stocking, thigh length,
40 mmhg or greater, custom, each 
• ml A6559 Gradient compression stocking, full length/
chap style, 18-30 mmhg, custom, each 
• ml A6560 Gradient compression stocking, full length/
chap style, 30-40 mmhg, custom, each 
• ml A6561 Gradient compression stocking, full length/
chap style, 40 mmhg or greater, custom, 
each 
• ml A6562 Gradient compression tocking, waist length,
18-30 mmhg, custom, each
• ml A6563 Gradient compression stocking, waist length,
30-40 mmhg, custom, each
• ml A6564 Gradient compression stocking, waist length,
40 mmhg or greater, custom, each 
• ml A6565 Gradient compression gauntlet, custom,
each 
c:I' Male only 
2 Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
l!IIII MIPS code 
CP ,s a registered trademark af the American Medical Assaciatian. Alf rights reserved. 
137 
A6566 - A6610 
• Ii A6566 Gradient compression garment, neck/head,
each 
• Ii A6567 Gradient compression garment, neck/head,
custom, each 
• Ii A6568 Gradient compression garment, torso and
shoulder, each 
• Ii A6569 Gradient compression garment, torso/
shoulder, custom, each 
• Ii A6570 Gradient compression garment, genital
region, each 
• Ii A6571 Gradient compression garment, genital
region, custom, each 
• Ii A6572 Gradient compression garment, toe caps,
each 
• Ii A6573 Gradient compression garment, toe caps,
custom, each 
• Ii A6574 Gradient compression arm sleeve and glove
combination, custom, each 
• Ii A6575 Gradient compression arm sleeve and glove
combination, each 
• Ii A6516 Gradient compression arm sleeve, custom,
medium weight, each 
• Ii A6577 Gradient compression arm sleeve, custom,
heavy weight, each 
• Ii A6578 Gradient compression arm sleeve, each
• Ii A6579 Gradient compression glove, custom,
medium weight, each 
• Ii A6580 Gradient compression glove, custom,
heavy weight, each 
• Ii A6581 Gradient compression glove, each
• Ii A6582 Gradient compression gauntlet, each
• Ii A6583 Gradient compression wrap with adjustable
straps, below knee, 30-50 mmhg, each 
• Ii A6584 Gradient compression wrap with adjustable
straps, not otherwise specified 
• Ii A6585 Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable
straps, above knee, each 
• Ii A6586 Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable
straps, full leg, each 
• Ii A6587 Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable
straps, foot, each 
• Ii A6588 Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable
straps, arm, each 
• Ii A6589 Gradient pressure wrap with adjustable
straps, bra, each 
EXTERNAL URINARY CATHETERS (DISPOSABLE AND NON­
OISPOSABLE) (A6590-A6610) 
• Ii A6590 External urinary catheters; disposable, with
wicking material, for use with suction pump, 
per month 
EmlN 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
• Ii A6591 External urinary catheter; non-disposable,
for use with suction pump, per month Eml N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• Ii A6593 Accessory for gradient compression garment
or wrap with adjustable straps, not-otherwise 
specified 
• Ii A6594 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
bandage liner, lower extremity, any size or 
length, each 
• Ii A6595 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
bandage liner, upper extremity, any size or 
length, each 
• Ii A6596 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
conforming gauze, per linear yard, any width, 
each 
• Ii A6597 Gradient compression bandage roll, elastic
long stretch, linear yard, any width, each 
• Ii A6598 Gradient compression bandage roll, elastic
medium stretch, per linear yard, any width, 
each 
' 
• Ii A6599 Gradient compression bandage roll, inelastic
short stretch, per linear yard, any width, each 
• Ii A6600 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
high density foam sheet, per 250 square 
centimeters, each 
• Ii A6601 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
high density foam pad, any size or shape, 
each 
• Ii A6602 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
high density foam roll for bandage, per linear 
yard, any width, each 
• Ii A6603 Gradient compression bandaging supply, low
density channel foam sheet, per 250 square 
centimeters, each 
• Ii A6604 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
low density flat foam sheet, per 250 square 
centimeters, each 
• Ii A6605 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
padded foam, per linear yard, any width, 
each 
• Ii A6606 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
padded textile, per linear yard, any width, 
each 
• Ii A6607 Gradient compression bandaging supply,
tubular protective absorption layer, per linear 
yard, any width, each 
• Ii A6608 Gradient compression bandsging supply,
tubular protective absorption padded layer, 
per linear yard, any width, each 
• Ii A6609 Gradient compression bandaging supply, not
otherwise specified 
• Ii A6610 Gradient compression stocking, below knee,
18-30 mmhg, custom, each
• Newcode
A Revised code 
mi Carrier judgment 
eJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
138 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
c_: 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
BREATHING AIDS (A7000-A7049), SEE ALSO INTERMITTENT 
POSITIVE PRESSURE BREATHING DEVICES (E0S00; OTHER 
BREATHING AIDS (E0605, E0606); ASSISTED BREATHING 
SUPPLIES (S8096-S8210) 
l9 A7000 Canister, disposable, used with suction 
pump, each 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KE,NU 
l9 A7001 Canister, non-disposable, used with suction 
pump, each 
EDY 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier. NU 
l9 A7002 Tubing, used with suction pump, each Im Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
l9 A7003 Administration set, with small volume 
nonfiltered pneumatic nebulizer, 
disposable 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU 
(:f .A7004 Small volume nonfiltered pneumatic 
nebulizer, disposable 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU 
1:1 A7005 Administration set, with small volume 
nonfiltered pneumatic nebulizer, non-
disposable 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU 
1:1 A7006 Administration set, with small volume 
filtered pneumatic nebulizer 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
S A7007 Large volume nebulizer, disposable, unfilled, 
used with aerosol compressor 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU 
S A7008 Large volume nebulizer, disposable, 
prefilled, used with aerosol 
compressor 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU 
EDY 
S A7009 Reservoir bottle, non-disposable, used with 
large volume ultrasonic nebulizer 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
1:1 A7010 Corrugated tubing, disposable, used with 
large volume nebulizer, 100 feet 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU 
S A7012 Water collection device, used with large 
volume nebulizer 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU 
A7000 -A7028 
B A7013 Filter, disposable, used with aerosol 
compressor or ultrasonic generator 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
l9 A7014 Filter, nondisposable, used with aerosol 
compressor or ultrasonic generator 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
S A7015 Aerosol mask, used with DME 
nebulizer 
E'DY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
B A7016 Dome and mouthpiece, used with small 
volume ultrasonic nebulizer 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
B A7017 Nebulizer, durable, glass or autoclavable 
plastic, bottle type, not used with 
oxygen 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU,RR.UE 
S A7018 Water, distilled, used with large volume 
EDY 
nebulizer, 1000 ml 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
S A7020 Interface for cough stimulating device, 
includes all components, replacement 
only 
EDY 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU 
• El A7023 Mechanical allergen particle barrier/
inhalation filter, cream, nasal, topical 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Statute· 1861(n) 
S A7025 High frequency chest wall oscillation system 
vest, replacement for use with patient 
owned equipment, each 
m N 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
B A7026 High frequency chest wall oscillation system 
hose, replacement for use with patient 
owned equipment, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
B A7027 Combination oral/nasal mask, used with 
continuous positive airway pressure 
device, each 
E'D Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier. NU 
S A7028 Oral cushion for combination oral/nasal 
mask, replacement only, each 
m Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
¾ MIPS code
CPT- is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
139 
A7029 - A7504 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
140 
B A7029 Nasal pillows for combination oral/nasal 
mask, replacement only, pair 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
B A7030 Full face mask used with positive airway 
pressure device, each 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7031 Face mask interface, replacement for full 
face mask, each 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7032 Cushion for use on nasal mask interface, 
replacement only, each 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7033 Pillow for use on nasal cannula type 
interface, replacement only, pair 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7034 Nasal interface (mask or cannula type) used 
with positive airway pressure device, 
with or without head strap 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7035 Headgear used with positive airway 
pressure device 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7036 Chinstrap used with positive airway 
pressure device 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7037 Tubing used with positive airway 
pressure device 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7038 Filter, disposable, used with positive 
airway pressure device 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7039 Filter, non disposable, used with 
positive airway pressure device 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
m 
m v 
m 
m v 
B A7040 One way chest drain valve 
liIID N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B A7041 Water seal drainage container and tubing 
for use with implanted chest tube 
liIID N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B A7044 Oral interface used with positive airway 
pressure device, each 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
m A7045 Exhalation port with or without swivel used 
with accessories for positive airway 
devices, replacement only 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
m A7046 Water chamber for humidifier, used 
with positive airway pressure device, 
replacement, each 
liIID Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
' 
DME Modifier: NU 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
B A7047 Oral interface used with respiratory 
suction pump, each 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
B A7048 Vacuum drainage collection unit and 
tubing kit, including all supplies needed for 
collection unit change, for use with 
implanted catheter, each 
liIID N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• El A7049 Expiratory positive airway pressure
intranasal resistance valve 
E1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 (n) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02
TRACHEOSTOMY SUPPLIES (A7501-A7527) 
m A7501 Tracheostoma valve, including diaphragm, 
each 
liIIDN 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m A7502 Replacement diaphragm/faceplate for 
tracheostoma valve, each 
liIID N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m A7503 Filter holder or filter cap, reusable, for use in 
a tracheostoma heat and moisture 
exchange system, each 
liIID N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m A7504 Filter for use in a tracheostoma heat and 
moisture exchange system, each 
liIID N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode
.A. Revised code 
Ii Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Chnic" 
CPT9 is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical and Surgical Supplies (A2001-A8004) 
m A7505 Housing, reusable without adhesive, 
for use in a heat and moisture exchange 
system and/or with a tracheostoma 
valve, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m A7506 Adhesive disc for use in a heat and moisture 
exchange system and/or with 
tracheostoma valve, any type each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m A7507 Filter holder and integrated filter without 
adhesive, for use in a tracheostoma heat 
and moisture exchange system, each Eml N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m A7508 Housing and integrated adhesive, for use in 
a tracheostoma heat and moisture 
exchange system and/or with a 
tracheostoma valve, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m A7509 Filter holder and integrated filter housing, 
and adhesive, for use as a tracheostoma 
heat and moisture exchange system, 
each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S A7520 Tracheostomy/laryngectomy tube, 
non-cuffed, polyvinylchloride (PVC), 
silicone or equal, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S A7521 Tracheostomy/laryngectomy tube, cuffed, 
polyvinylchloride (PVC), silicone or 
equal, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: 01F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S A7522 Tracheostomy/laryngectomy tube, stainless 
steel or equal (sterilizable and reusable), 
each 
Eml N 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S A7523 Tracheostomy shower protector, each 
N 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S A7524 Tracheostoma stenUstud/button, each Eml N 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S A7525 Tracheostomy mask, each 
Eml N 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S A7526 Tracheostomy tube collar/holder, each Eml N 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S A7527 Tracheostomy/laryngectomy tube 
plug/stop, each 
lilD N 
BETOS: 01A Medical/surgical supplies 
A7505 - A8004 
HELMETS (A8000-A8004) 
S ABOOO Helmet, protective, soft, prefabricated, 
includes all components and 
accessories 
Eml Y 
BETOS: 01 E Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
' 
Helmet 
S A8001 Helmet, protective, hard, prefabricated, 
includes all components and 
accessories 
Eml Y 
BETOS: 01 E Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
S A8002 Helmet, protective, soft, custom 
fabricated, includes all components and 
accessories 
Eml Y 
BETOS: 01 E Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
S A8003 Helmet, protective, hard, custom 
fabricated, includes all components and 
accessories 
Eml Y 
BETOS: 01 E Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
S A8004 Soft interface for helmet, replacement 
only 
lilDY 
BETOS: 01 E Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Al-Z3 = ASC Payment indicatDr 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A• Y = APC Status indicator 
&llm MIPS code 
cp-,. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
141 
NOTES 
l 
-.. 
t] 
(U 
) 
Administrative, Miscellaneous and lnvestigational (A9150-A9999) 
ADMINISTRATIVE, MISCELLANEOUS AND 
INVESTIGATIONAL (A9150-A9999) 
MISCELLANEOUS SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT (A9150-A9300) 
l:J A9150 Non-prescription drugs 
B 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
0 A9152 Single vitamin/mineral/trace element, 
oral, per dose, not otherwise specified 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 A9153 Multiple vitamins, with or without minerals 
and trace elements, oral, per dose, 
not otherwise specified 
E1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 A9155 Artificial saliva, 30 ml 
B 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Other carrier priced 
• l:J A9156 Oral mucoadhesive, any type
(liquid, gel, paste, etc.), per 1 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 A9180 Pediculosis (lice infestation) treatment, 
topical, for administration by patienU 
caretaker 
E 1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• El A9268 Programmer for transient, orally ingested
capsule 
O E1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 (n) 
• El A9269 Programable, transient, orally ingested
capsule, for use with external programmer, 
per month 
E1 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 (n) 
li!iJ A9270 Non-covered item or service 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
El A9272 Wound suction, disposable, includes 
dressing, all accessories and components, 
E1 
any type,each 
E1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861(n) 
El A9273 Cold or hot fluid bottle, ice cap or collar, 
heat and/or cold wrap, any type 
E1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A9150 - A9283 
El A9274 External ambulatory insulin delivery system, 
disposable, each, includes all supplies and 
accessories 
E 1 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 (n) 
li!iJ A9275 Home glucose disposable monitor, 
includes test strips 
E1 
BETOS: T1 E Lab tests - glucose 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
El A9276 Sensor; invasive (e.g., subcutaneous), 
disposable, for use with non-durable 
medical equipment interstitial continuous 
glucose monitoring system, one unit = 1 day 
supply 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 (n) 
El A9277 Transmitter; external, for use with non­
durable medical equipment interstitial 
continuous glucose monitoring system 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
' 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 (n) 
El A9278 Receiver (monitor); external, for use with 
non-durable medical equipment interstitial 
continuous glucose monitoring system 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861(n) 
El A9279 Monitoring feature/device, stand-alone 
or integrated, any type, includes all 
accessories, components and electronics, 
not otherwise classified 
E1 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861(n) 
El A9280 Alert or alarm device, not otherwise 
classified 
E 1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 
El A9281 Reaching/grabbing device, any type, 
any length, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862 SSA 
El A9282 Wig, any type, each 
E1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined _yOdes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861SSA 
El A9283 Foot pressure off loading/supportive 
device, any type, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a(i)13 
cl Male only 
-9- Female only 
0 Age 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator
A - Y = APC Status indicator
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
l1Jm MIPS code 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
143 
A9284-A9515 
Administrative, Miscellaneous and lnvestigational (A9150-A9999) 
I:) A9284 Spirometer, non-electronic, includes all 
accessories 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
II A9285 lnversion/eversion correction device 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
El A9286 Hygienic item or device, disposable or 
non-disposable, any type, each 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1834 
II A9291 Prescription digital cognitive and/or 
behavioral therapy, fda cleared, 
per course of treatment 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q4 
• II A9292 Prescription digital visual therapy,
software-only, fda cleared, per course of 
N 
A 
E1 
0 E1 
treatment 
0 E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Value not established 
li!il A9300 Exercise equipment 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E1 
DIAGNOSTIC AND THERAPEUTIC RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS 
(A9500-A9800), SEE ALSO DIAGNOSTIC 
RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS (A4641-A4642) 
II A9500 Technetium Tc-99m sestamibi, diagnostic, 
per study dose 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4; 2006, 02 
II A9501 Technetium Tc-99m teboroxime, diagnostic, 
per study dose 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 01 
II A9502 Technetium Tc-99m tetrofosmin, diagnostic, 
per study dose 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04; 2006, 02 
II A9503 Technetium Tc-99m medronate, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 30 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02; 2004, Q3; 2005, Q4 
II A9504 Technetium Tc-99m apcitide, diagnostic, 
per study dose, up to 20 millicuries N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q4; 2002, 02 
II A9505 Thallium Tl-201 thallous chloride, diagnostic, 
per millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02; 2004, 03, 2005, 
04 
II A9507 Indium ln-111 capromab pendetide, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 10 millicuries 
N1 d' ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
II A9508 Iodine 1-131 iobenguane sulfate, diagl'lostic, 
per 0.5 millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2; 2005, 04 
II A9509 Iodine 1-123 sodium iodide, diagnostic, 
per millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
II A9510 Technetium Tc-99m disofenin, diagnostic, 
per study dose, up to 15 millicuries N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
II A9512 Technetium Tc-99m pertechnetate, 
diagnostic, per millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
I:) A9513 Lutetium lu 177, dotatate, therapeutic, 
1 millicurie 
K 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: LUTATHERA 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04, 20.19, 01 
II A9515 Choline c-11, diagnostic, per study dose 
up to 20 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
Iii Carrier judgment 
liJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!il Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic-
144 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Administrative, Miscellaneous and lnvestigational (A9150-A9999) 
8 A9516 Iodine 1-123 sodium iodide, 
diagnostic, per 100 microcuries, 
up to 999 microcuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier pnced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9517 Iodine 1-131 sodium iodide capsule(s), 
therapeutic, per millicurie 
K 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4; 2008, Q3 
8 A9520 Technetium Tc-99m, tilmanocept, 
diagnostic, up to 0.5 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier pnced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4; 2013, Q4 
8 A9521 Technetium Tc-99m exametazime, 
diagnostic, per study 
dose, up to 25 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9524 Iodine 1-131 iodinated serum albumin, 
diagnostic, per 5 microcuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier pnced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9526 Nitrogen N-13 ammonia, diagnostic, per 
study dose, up to 40 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4; 2022, Q1 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
8 A9527 Iodine 1-125, sodium iodide solution, 
therapeutic, per millicurie 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q2; 2016, Q3; 2016, 
Q3 
8 A9528 Iodine 1-131 sodium iodide capsule(s), 
diagnostic, per millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
8 A9529 Iodine 1-131 sodium iodide solution, 
diagnostic, per millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
A9516-A9540 
8 A9530 Iodine 1-131 sodium iodide solution, 
therapeutic, per millicurie 
K 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9531 Iodine 1-131 sodium iodide, 
diagnostic, per microcurie 
(up to 100 microcuries) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9532 Iodine 1-125 serum albumin, diagnostic, 
per 5 microcuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9536 Technetium Tc-99m depreotide, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
, 
up to 35 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9537 Technetium Tc-99m mebrofenin, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 15 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9538 Technetium Tc-99m pyrophosphate, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 25 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9539 Technetium Tc-99m pentetate, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 25 millicuries 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
8 A9540 Technetium Tc-99m macroaggregated 
albumin, diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 10 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
d' Male only 
½ Female only 
fj) Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A • Y = APC Status indicator 
Clli1 MIPScode 
CPT"' 1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
145 
A9541 -A9561 
Administrative, Miscellaneous and lnvestigational (A91 S0-A9999) 
146 
B A9541 Technetium Tc-99m sulfur colloid, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 20 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9542 Indium ln-111 ibritumomab tiuxetan, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 5 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9543 Yttrium Y-90 ibritumomab tiuxetan, 
therapeutic, per treatment dose, 
up to 40 millicuries 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: ZEVALIN Y-90 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9546 Cobalt Co-57/58, cyanocobalamin, 
diagnostic, per"study dose, 
K 
up to 1 microcurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9547 Indium ln-111 oxyquinoline, diagnostic, 
per 0.5 millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9548 Indium ln-111 pentetate, diagnostic, 
per 0.5 millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9550 Technetium Tc-99m sodium gluceptate, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 25 millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9551 Technetium Tc-99m succimer, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 10 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9552 Fluorodeoxyglucose F-18 FOG, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 45 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04; 2008, 03; 2022, 
01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.16 
B A9553 Chromium Cr-51 sodium chromate, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 250 microcuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9554 Iodine 1-125 sodium iothalamate, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 10 microcuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9555 Rubidium Rb-82, diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 60 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04; 2022, 01 
B A9556 Gallium Ga-67 citrate, diagnostic, 
per millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9557 Technetium Tc-99m bicisate, diagnostic, 
per study dose, up to 25 millicuries N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9558 Xenon Xe-133 gas, diagnostic, 
per 10 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9559 Cobalt Co-57 cyanocobalamin, 
oral, diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 1 microcurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
B A9560 Technetium Tc-99m labeled red blood 
cells, diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 30 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04; 2008, 03 
B A9561 Technetium Tc-99m oxidronate, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 30 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic"' 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
4
(_ 
Administrative, Miscellaneous and lnvestigational (A91 SO-A9999) 
II A9562 Technetium Tc-99m mertiatide, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 15 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
II A9563 Sodium phosphate P-32, therapeutic, 
per millicurie 
K 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
II A9564 Chromic phosphate P-32 suspension, 
therapeutic, per millicurie 
E1 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
II A9566 Technetium Tc-99m fanolesomab, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 25 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
II A9567 Technetium Tc-99m pentetate, 
diagnostic, aerosol, per study dose, 
up to 75 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
II A9568 Technetium Tc-99m arcitumomab, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 45 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
II A9569 Technetium Tc-99m exametazime labeled 
autologous white blood cells, diagnostic, 
per study dose 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
II A9570 Indium ln-111 labeled autologous white blood 
cells, diagnostic, per study dose 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
II A9571 Indium ln-111 labeled autologous platelets, 
diagnostic, per study dose 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
A9562 - A9581 
II A9572 Indium ln-111 pentetreotide, diagnostic, 
per study dose, up to 6 millicuries N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
• II A9573 Injection, gadopiclenol, 1 ml
N1 OASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
II A9575 Injection, gadoterate meglumine, 
0.1 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: CLARISCAN, DOTAREM, 
GADOTERATE MEGLUMINE 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
II A9576 Injection, gadoteridol, (ProHance multipack), 
per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
'
Drugs: PROHANCE MULTIPACK 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
II A9577 Injection, gadobenate dimeglumine 
(MultiHance), per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: MULTIHANCE 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
II A9578 Injection, gadobenate dimeglumine 
(MultiHance multipack), per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: MULTIHANCE MULTIPACK 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
II A9579 Injection, gadolinium-based magnetic 
resonance contrast agent, not otherwise 
specified (NOS), per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard Imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: MAGNEVIST 46.9%, OMNISCAN, 
PROHANCE, PROHANCE PREFILLED 
SYRINGES 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
II A9580 Sodium fluoride F-18, diagnostic, per study 
dose, up to 30 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q1: 2008, Q4 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.18 
II A9581 Injection, gadoxetate disodium, 
1 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Drugs: EOVIST, GADOXETATE DISODIUM 
ci' Male only 
!it Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC. Payment indicator 
1!mJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
tllm MIPScode 
CPr-Is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
147 
A9582 -A9598 
Administrative, Miscellaneous and lnvestigational (A9150-A9999) 
148 
ml A9582 Iodine 1-123 iobenguane, 
diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 15 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
ml A9583 Injection, gadofosveset trisodium, 
1 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
ml A9584 Iodine 1-123 ioflupane, diagnostic, 
per study dose, up to 5 millicuries N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
ml A9585 Injection, gadobutrol, 0.1 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: GADAVIST 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q1 
E A94Q6 Florbetapir F18, diagnostic, per study 
dose, up to 10 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2014, 01; 2014, Q3 
ml A9587 Gallium ga-68, dotatate, diagnostic, 
0.1 millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2017, Q1 
ml A9588 Fluciclovine f-18, diagnostic, 
1 millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2017, Q1 
ml A9589 Instillation, hexaminolevulinate 
hydrochloride, 100 mg 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: CYSVIEW 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
ml A9590 Iodine i-131, iobenguane, 
N 
1 millicurie 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: AZEDRA THERAPEUTIC 
ml A9591 Fluoroestradiol f 18, diagnostic, 
1 millicurie 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
ml A9592 Copper cu-64, dotatate, diagnostic, 
1 millicurie 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: DETECTNET 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
ml A9593 Gallium ga-68 psma-11, diagnostic, (ucsf}, 
1 millicurie 
K2 r/' ASC G 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: GALLIUM GA 68 PSMA (UCSF) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
ml A9594 Gallium ga-68 psma-11, diagnostic, (ucla}, 
1 millicurie 
K2 ,i' ASC G 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: GALLIUM GA 68 PSMA (UCL{-,) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
ml A9595 Piflufolastat f-18, diagnostic, 
1 millicurie 
K2 ri' ASC G 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: PYLARIFY 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q1 
ml A9596 Gallium ga-68 gozetotide, diagnostic, 
(illuccix), 1 millicurie 
K2 r/' ASC G 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: ILLUCCIX 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q3 
ml A9597 Positron emission tomography 
radiopharmaceutical, diagnostic, 
for tumor identification, 
not otherwise classified 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2017, Q1; 2017, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3.2 
ml A9598 Positron emission tomography 
radiopharmaceutical, diagnostic, 
for non-tumor identification, 
not otherwise classified 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imagil'lg - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2017, Q1; 2017, Q1 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3.2 
• Newcode
.& Revised code 
ml Carrier judgment 
liJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
../ 
Administrative, Miscellaneous and lnvestigational (A91 S0-A9999) 
A9600 - A9999 
Bl A9600 Strontium Sr-89 chloride, therapeutic, 
per millicurie 
K 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: METASTRON, STRONTIUM 
CHLORIDE SR 89 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02; 2005, 04 
Bl A9601 Flortaucipir f 18 injection, diagnostic, 
1 millicurie 
KS O ASC E2 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 03 
Bl A9602 Fluorodopa f-18, diagnostic, 
per millicurie 
K2 0 ASC G 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: FLUORODOPA F18 
Coding Clinic: 2022. 04 
• Bl A9603 Injection, pafolacianine,
0.1 mg 
N1 ioASC N
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Bl A9604 Samarium Sm-153 lexidronam, therapeutic, 
per treatment dose, up to 150 millicuries 
K 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: OUADRAMET 
Bl A9606 Radium Ra-223 dichloride, therapeutic, 
per microcurie 
d" K 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: XOFIGO 
Coding Clinic: 2014, 04 
Bl A9607 Lutetium lu 177 vipivotide tetraxetan, 
therapeutic, 1 millicurie 
r:l' o G 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: PLUVICTO 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
• Bl A9608 Flotufolastat f 18, diagnostic, 1 millicurie 
r:l'
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
• Bl A9609 Fludeoxyglucose f18 up to 15 millicuries
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
• Bl A9697 Injection, carboxydextran-coated
superparamagnetic iron oxide, per study 
dose 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
liJ A9698 Non-radioactive contrast imaging 
material, not otherwise classified, 
per study 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04: 2017, 01 
Bl A9699 Radiopharmaceutical. therapeutic, 
not otherwise classified 
N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
liJ A9700 Supply of injectable contrast material for use 
in echocardiography, per study 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
, 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 04, 2003, 02; 2017, 
01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-12, 30.4 
Bl A9800 Gallium ga-68 gozetotide, diagnostic, 
(locametz), 1 millicurie 
K2 r;/' 0 ASC G 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: LOCAMETZ 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
MISCELLANEOUS DME SUPPLIES AND SERVICES 
(A9900-A9999) 
Bl A9900 Miscellaneous DME supply, accessory, 
and/or service component of another 
HCPCS code 
Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Bl A9901 DME delivery, set up, and/or 
dispensing service component of another 
HCPCS code 
A 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
Bl A9999 Miscellaneous DME supply or accessory, 
not otherwise specified 
Y 
BETOS: D 1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
r;/' Male only 
8 Female only 
O Age 
AJ. -Z3 = ASC. Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
mll Paid under the DME fee schedule 
1.11m MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Med/cal Association. All rights reserved. 
149 
NOTES 
-----------------------
Enteral and Parenteral Therapy (B4034-B9999) 
ENTERAL AND PARENTERAL THERAPY 
(B4034-B9999) 
ENTERAL FEEDING SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT 
(B4034-B4088) 
8 B4034 Enteral feeding supply kit; syringe fed, 
per day, includes but not limited to 
feeding/flushing syringe, administration 
set tubing, dressings, tape 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4035 Enteral feeding supply kit; pump fed, per 
day, includes but not limited to feeding/ 
flushing syringe, administration set tubing, 
dressings, tape 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4036 Enteral feeding supply kit; gravity fed, per 
day, includes but not limited to feeding/ 
flushing syringe, administration set tubing, 
dressings, tape 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4081 Nasogastric tubing with stylet 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4082 Nasogastric tubing without stylet 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4083 Stomach tube - Levine type 
y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
(I B4087 Gastrostomy/jejunostomy tube, standard, 
any material, any type, each 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
(I B4088 Gastrostomy/jejunostomy tube, low-profile, 
any material, any type, each 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
ENTERAL FORMULAS AND ADDITIVES (84100-B4162) 
BJ B4100 Food thickener, administered orally, 
per ounce 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
8 B4102 Enteral formula, for adults, used to replace 
fluids and electrolytes (e.g., clear liquids), 
E1 
500 ml = 1 unit 
O Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4103 Enteral formula, for pediatrics, used 
to replace fluids and electrolytes 
(e.g., clear liquids), 500 ml= 1 unit 
O Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4104 Additive for enteral formula (e.g., fiber) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(I B4105 In-line cartridge containing digestive 
enzyme(s) for enteral feeding, each 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
84034 - 84157 
• m B4148 Enteral feeding supply kit; elastomeric
control fed, per day, includes but not limited 
to feeding/flushing syringe, administration 
set tubing, dressings, tape 
y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
m B4149 Enteral formula, manufactured blenderized 
natural foods with intact nutrients, includes 
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, vitamins and 
minerals, may include fiber, administered 
through an enteral feeding tube, 
100 calories = 1 unit 
y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
m B4150 Enteral formula, nutritionally complete with 
intact nutrients, includes proteins, fats, 
carbohydrates, vitamins and minerals, may 
include fiber, administered through an 
enteral feeding tube, 100 calories = 1 unit 
y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
m B4152 Enteral formula, nutritionally complete, 
calorically dense (equal to or greater than 
1.5 kcal/ml) with intact nutrients, includes 
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, vitc!mins and 
minerals, may include fiber, administered 
through an enteral feeding tube, 
100 calories = 1 unit 
y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4153 Enteral formula, nutritionally complete, 
hydrolyzed proteins (amino acids and 
peptide chain), includes fats, carbohydrates, 
vitamins and minerals, may include fiber, 
administered through an enteral feeding 
tube, 100 calories = 1 unit 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4154 Enteral formula, nutritionally complete, 
for special metabolic needs, excludes 
inherited disease of metabolism, includes 
altered composition of proteins, fats, 
carbohydrates, vitamins and/or minerals, 
may include fiber, administered through an 
enteral feeding tube, 100 calories = 1 unit Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4155 Enteral formula, nutritionally incomplete/ 
modular nutrients, includes specific 
nutrients, carbohydrates (e.g., glucose 
polymers), proteins/amino acids 
(e.g., glutamine, arginine), fat 
(e.g., medium chain triglycerides) or 
combination, administered through an 
enteral feeding tube, 100 calories = 1 unit 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
8 B4157 Enteral formula, nutritionally complete, 
for special metabolic needs for inherited 
disease of metabolism, includes proteins, 
fats, carbohydrates, vitamins and minerals, 
may include fiber, administered through an 
enteral feeding tube, 100 calories = 1 unit 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
ri' Male only 
9 Female only 
fl Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A, Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
llJlt) MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
151 
B4158 - B5000 
DJ B4158 Enteral formula, for pediatrics, nutritionally 
complete with intact nutrients, includes 
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, vitamins and 
minerals, may include fiber and/or iron, 
administered through an enteral feeding 
tube, 100 calories = 1 unit 
0 Y 
BETOS: O1C 
Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4159 Enteral formula, for pediatrics, nutritionally 
complete soy based with intact nutrients, 
includes proteins, fats, carbohydrates, 
vitamins and minerals, may include fiber 
and/or iron, administered through an enteral 
feeding tube, 100 calories = 1 unit 
0 Y 
BETOS: O1C 
Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4160 Enteral formula, for pediatrics, nutritionally 
complete calorically dense (equal to or 
greater than 0.7 kcal/ml) with intact nutrients, 
includes proteins, fats, carbohydrates, 
vitamins and minerals, may include fiber, 
administered through an enteral feeding 
tube, 100 calories = 1 unit 
0 Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4161 Enteral formula, for pediatrics. hydrolyzed/ 
amino acids and peptide chain proteins, 
includes fats, carbohydrates, vitamins and 
minerals, may include fiber, administered 
through an enteral feeding tube, 
100 calories = 1 unit 
O Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4162 Enteral formula, for pediatrics, special 
metabolic needs for inherited disease 
of metabolism, includes proteins, fats, 
carbohydrates, vitamins and minerals, may 
include fiber, administered through an enteral 
feeding tube, 100 calories = 1 unit 
O Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
PARENTERAL SOLUTIONS AND SUPPLIES (B4164-B5200) 
DJ B4164 Parenteral nutrition solution: carbohydrates 
(dextrose), 50% or less (500 ml= 1 unit) -
homemix 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4168 Parenteral nutrition solution; amino acid, 
3.5%, (500 ml = 1 unit) - homemix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4172 Parenteral nutrition solution; amino acid, 
5.5% through 7%, (500 ml = 1 unit) -
homemix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4176 Parenteral nutrition solution; amino acid, 
7% through 8.5%, (500 ml = 1 unit) -
homemix 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4178 Parenteral nutrition solution: amino acid, 
greater than 8.5% (500 ml = 1 unit) -
homemix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
Enteral and Parenteral Therapy (B4034-B9999) 
DJ B4180 Parenteral nutrition solution; carbohydrates 
(dextrose), greater than 50% (500 ml=1 unit) 
- homemix 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4185 Parenteral nutrition solution, not otherwise 
specified, 10 grams lipids 
B 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4187 Omegaven, 10 grams lipids 
OB 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4189 Parenteral nutrition solution; compounded 
amino acid and carbohydrates with 
electrolytes, trace elements, and vitamins, 
including preparation, any strength, 
10 to 51 grams of protein - premix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4193 Parenteral nutrition solution; compounded 
amino acid and carbohydrates with 
electrolytes, trace elements, and vitamins, 
including preparation, any strength, 
52 to 73 grams of protein - premix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral' 
DJ B4197 Parenteral nutrition solution; compounded 
amino acid and carbohydrates with 
electrolytes, trace elements and vitamins, 
including preparation, any strength, 
74 to 100 grams of protein - premix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C 
Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4199 Parenteral nutrition solution; compounded 
amino acid and carbohydrates with 
electrolytes, trace elements and vitamins, 
including preparation, any strength, 
over 100 grams of protein - premix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4216 Parenteral nutrition; additives (vitamins, 
trace elements, heparin, electrolytes) 
homemix per day 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4220 Parenteral nutrition supply kit; premix, 
per day 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4222 Parenteral nutrition supply kit; home mix, 
per day 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B4224 Parenteral nutrition administration kit, 
per day 
Y 
BETOS: O1C 
Enteral and parenteral 
DJ B5000 Parenteral nutrition solution compounded 
amino acid and carbohydrates with 
electrolytes, trace elements, and vitamins, 
including preparation, any strength, 
renal-Amirosyn RF, NephrAmine, 
RenAmine-premix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
• Newcode
.a. Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment 
liJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
152 
CPT-is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Enteral and Parenteral Therapy (84034-89999) 
B5100 - B9999 
l!J B5100 Parenteral nutrition solution compounded 
amino acid and carbohydrates with 
electrolytes, trace elements, and vitamins, 
including preparation, any strength, 
hepatic, HepAtamine-premix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C Enteral and parenteral 
l!J B5200 Parenteral nutrition solution compounded 
amino acid and carbohydrates with 
electrolytes, trace elements, and vitamins, 
including preparation, any strength, 
stress-branch chain amino acids-
freamine-hbc-premix 
Y 
BETOS: O1C 
Enteral and parenteral 
NUTRITION INFUSION PUMPS AND SUPPLIES NOT 
OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED, NOC (B9002-B9999) 
l!J B9002 Enteral nutrition infusion pump, any type 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C 
Enteral and parenteral 
l!J B9004 Parenteral nutrition infusion pump, 
portable 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
l!J B9006 Parenteral nutrition infusion pump, 
y 
stationary 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
l!J B9998 NOC for enteral supplies 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
Other carrier priced 
l!J B9999 NOC for parenteral supplies 
Y 
BETOS: 01 C Enteral and parenteral 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 02 
d' Maleonly 
i Female only 
0 Age 
A2 • 23 := ASC Payment indicator 
A• Y = APC St at us indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedur e 
mII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
IIJltJ MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
153 
NOTES 
----- ---- -
-- ------------
-
' 
"\ 
L 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
OUTPATIENT PPS (C1052-C9899) 
OTHER THERAPEUTIC PROCEDURES (C1052-C1062) 
l!J C1052 Hemostatic agent, gastrointestinal, 
topical 
J7 ASC H 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
l!J C1062 lntravertebral body fracture augmentation 
with implant (e.g., metal, polymer) J7 ASCH 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
SURGICAL, IMAGING DEVICES AND GRAFTS (C1600-C1604) 
• l!J C1600 Catheter, transluminal intravascular lesion
preparation device, bladed, sheathed 
(insertable) 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• l!J C1601 Endoscope, single-use (i.e. disposable),
pulmonary, imaging/illumination device 
(insertable) 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• l!J C1602 Orthopedic/device/drug matrix/absorbable
bone void filler, antimicrobial-eluting 
(implantable) 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• l!J C1603 Retrieval device, insertable, laser (used to
retrieve intravascular inferior vena cava filter) 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• l!J C1604 Graft, transmural transvenous arterial
bypass (implantable), with all delivery system 
components 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
ASSORTED DEVICES AND SUPPLIES (C1713-C1715) 
l!J C1713 Anchor/screw for opposing bone-to-bone or 
soft tissue-to-bone (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2010, 
01; 2016, 03; 2016, 03; 2018, 01; 2018, 
02; 2020, 04; 2020, 04; 2021, 01, 2021, 
01; 2021, 01; 2021, 02; 2022, 01; 2022, 
03; 2022, 04 
l!J C1714 Catheter, transluminal atherectomy, 
directional 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, 03; 2003, 
04,2004,04;2016,03 
Cl 052 - Cl 725 
l!J C1715 Brachytherapy needle 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2016, 03 
BRACHYTHERAPY SOURCES (C1716-C1719), SEE ALSO 
BRACHYTHERAPY SOURCES (C2616); BRACHYTHERAPY 
SOURCES (C2634-C2699) 
l!J C1716 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, 
gold-198, per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: 148 Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2004, 
04; 2004, 02; 2007, 02; 2016, 03, 2016, 
03; 2016, 03 
l!J C1717 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, high 
dose rate iridium-192, per source H2 ASC U 
BETOS: 148 Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, 03; 2004, 
04; 2004, 02; 2007, 02: 2016, 
3; 2016, 
03; 2016, 03 
l!J C1719 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, 
non-high dose rate iridium-192, per 
source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: 148 Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2004, 
04; 2004, 02, 2007, 02; 2016, 03 2016, 
03; 2016, 03 
CARDIOVERTER-DEFIBRILLATORS (C1721-C1722) 
l!J C1721 Cardioverter-defibrillator, dual chamber 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, 03; 2004, 
04;2006,04,2016,03 
l!J C1722 Cardioverter-defibrillator, single chamber 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2004, 
04;2006,04,2006,02;2016,03;2017,02 
CATHETERS FOR MULTIPLE APPLICATIONS (C1724-C1759) 
l!J C1724 Catheter, transluminal atherectomy, 
rotational 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, 03; 2003, 
04;2004,04;2016 03;2016,03 
l!J C1725 Catheter, transluminal angioplasty, non-laser 
(may include guidance, infusion/perfusion 
capability) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2003, 
04;2004,04;2016,03;2016,03 
cl' Male only 
f Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Al-Z3 =5Payment in<ficatDr 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Status indicator 
IIJlt) MIPScode 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
155 
(1726- (1753 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-(9899) 
156 
l!J C1726 Catheter, balloon dilatation, 
 
non-vascular 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2016, 
Q3; 2016, 03 
Balloon angioplasty 
l!J C1727 Catheter, balloon tissue dissector, 
non-vascular (insertable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03, 2016, 
Q3, 2016, 03 
l!J C1728 Catheter, brachytherapy seed 
administration 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, Q3, 2016, 
03 
l!J C1729 Catheter, drainage 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, 03, 2016. 
03, 2016 03 
l!J C1730 Catheter, electrophysiology, diagnostic, 
other than 3D mapping (19 or fewer 
electrodes) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 03; 2001, 01, 2002. 
03;2004,04 2016,Q3;2016,03 
l!J C1731 Catheter, electrophysiology, diagnostic, 
other than 3D mapping (20 or more 
electrodes) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, 03; 2004, 
04,2016,03;2016,03 
l!J C1732 Catheter, electrophysiology, diagnostic/ 
ablation, 3D or vector mapping 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3; 2001, 01, 2002, 
03; 2004, 04; 2016, Q3, 2016, Q3 
l!J C1733 Catheter, electrophysiology, diagnostic/ 
ablation, other than 3D or vector mapping, 
other than cool-tip 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 03; 2001, 01; 2002, 
Q3; 2004, 04; 2016, Q3; 2016, 03 
l!J C1734 Orthopedic/device/drug matrix for opposing 
bone-to-bone or soft tissue-to bone 
(implantable} 
J7 ASCH 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute· 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 01 
l!J C1747 Endoscope, single-use (i.e. disposable), 
urinary tract, imaging/illumination device 
(insertable) 
J7 ASCH 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01; 2023, 01, 2023, 03 
l!J C1748 Endoscope, single-use (i.e. disposable), 
upper gi, imaging/illumination device ' 
(insertable} 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02; 2023 03 
l!J C1749 Endoscope, retrograde imaging/illumination 
colonoscope device (implantable) N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 03 
l!J C1750 Catheter, hemodialysis/peritoneal, 
long-term 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03, 2003, 
04, 2012, 04 
l!J C1751 Catheter, infusion, inserted peripherally, 
centrally or midline (other than 
hemodialysis) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 03; 2001, 01; 2002, 
03, 2003, Q4; 2004, Q4; 2014, 03, 2016, 
03, 2019, Q2 
l!J C1752 Catheter, hemodialysis/peritoneal, 
short-term 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, 03, 2003, 
04·2016,03 
l!J C1753 Catheter, intravascular ultrasound N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2003, 
04; 2016, 03 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
l3I carrier judgment
l!J Special coverage instructions apply
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute
AHA Coding Clime 
CPT9 ,s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
l!J C1754 Catheter, intradiscal 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2003, 
Q4; 2016, Q3 
l!J C1755 Catheter, intraspinal 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002 Q3; 2003, 
Q4; 2016, Q3 
l!J C1756 Catheter, pacing, transesophageal N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, Q3; 2003, Q4 
l!J C1757 Catheter, thrombectomy/ 
embolectomy 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute· 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, Q3, 2003. 
Q4, 2016, Q3 
l!J C1758 Catheter, ureteral 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3, 2003, 
Q4 2016, Q3 
l!J C1759 Catheter, intracardiac 
echocardiography 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3; 2001, Q1, 2002. 
Q3; 2003, Q4; 2016, Q3 
ASSORTED DEVICES, IMPLANTS, AND SYSTEMS 
(C1760-C2615) 
l!J C1760 Closure device, vascular 
(implantable/insertable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3, 2003, 
Q4, 2016 Q3, 2016, Q3 
l!J C1761 Catheter, transluminal intravascular 
lithotripsy, coronary 
J7 ASC H 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3, 2021, Q4; 2023, Q2 
l!J C1762 Connective tissue, human 
(includes fascia lata) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2003, 
Q4; 2003, Q3; 2010, Q1; 2016, Q3; 2016, 
Q3 2016, Q3 
l!J C1763 Connective tissue, non-human 
(includes synthetic) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
C1754-C1772 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, Q3; 2003, 
04; 2003, 03; 2010, Q1; 2010, Q4; 2016, 
03; 2016, Q3; 2016, Q3; 2022, 04 
l!J C1764 Event recorder, cardiac 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, 03; 2003, 
04; 2016, 03 
l!J C1765 Adhesion barrier 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q3, 2016, 03 
l!J C1766 Introducer/sheath, guiding, intracardiac 
electrophysiological, steerable, other than 
peel-away 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 03, 2002, Q3, 2004, 
04; 2016, Q3 
l:J C1767 Generator, neurostimulator (implaQtable), 
non-rechargeable 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001 Q1; 2002, 03, 2002, 
01; 2003, 04; 2004, Q4; 2006, Q4; 2006, 
01; 2007, 01, 2016, 03; 2021, 01 
l!J C1768 Graft, vascular 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2003, 
04; 2016, 03 
l!J C1769 Guide wire 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 03; 2001, Q1, 2002, 
Q3, 2003, Q4, 2007, Q2; 2014 03; 2016, 
03, 2016, 03 2019, Q2; 2019, Q3; 2022, 01 
l!J C1770 Imaging coil, magnetic resonance 
(insertable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, 03, 2003, 
Q4, 2016, Q3 
l!J C1771 Repair device, urinary, incontinence, 
with sling graft 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3; 2001, 01; 2002, 
Q3, 2003, 04; 2008, Q3;_2016, 03; 2016, Q3 
l!J C1772 Infusion pump, programmable 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2004, 
04; 2016, Q3 
d Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Al.. Z3 = A5C. Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
l.lm MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Assaciat,an. All rights reserved. 
157 
(1773-(1814 
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-(9899) 
158 
l!J C1773 Retrieval device, insertable (used to retrieve 
fractured medical devices) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute· 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, 03; 2003, 
04; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
l!J C1776 Joint device (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 03; 2001, 01; 2002, 
03, 2008, 04, 2010, 03; 2016, 03 2016, 
03, 2016. 03; 2018. 03, 2020, 01, 2021, 03 
l!J C1777 Lead, cardioverter-defibrillator, endocardial 
single coil (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2004, 
04; 2006, 04; 2006, 02; 2016, 03; 2017, 02 
l!J C1778 Lead, neurostimulator 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute· 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, 03, 2002, 
01; 2006, 04; 2007, 01; 2011, 04; 2016, 
03. 2019, 01; 2021, 01; 2022, 04
l!J C1779 Lead, pacemaker, transvenous VDD 
single pass 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2004, 
04; 2006, 04; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
l!J C1780 Lens, intraocular (new 
technology) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2016, 
03; 2016, 03 
l!J C1781 Mesh (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2012, 
02; 2010 01, 2016, 03; 2016, 03, 2019, 
01; 2022 04 
l!J C1782 Morcellator 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2016, 
03, 2016 03 
l!J C1783 Ocular implant, aqueous drainage assist 
device 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q3; 2017, 01 
l!J C1784 Ocular device, intraoperalive, detached 
retina 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2016, 
03; 2016, 03 
l!J C1785 Pacemaker, dual chamber, rate-responsive 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2003, 
04;2006,04,2016,03 
l!J C1786 Pacemaker, single chamber, rate-responsive 
Superior vena cava 
Pulmonary artery 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03, 2003, 
04;2004,04;2006,04;2016,03 
Pacemaker insertion 
Pacemaker leads 
, PACEMAKER 
' 
Left atrium 
Left ventricle 
l!J C1787 Patient programmer, 
neurostimulator 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03. 2003, 
04; 2016, 03, 2016, 03 
l!J C1788 Port, indwelling (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 03; 2001, 01; 2002, 
03, 2003, 04; 2004, 04; 2014, 03; 2016, 
03; 2019, 02 
l!J C1789 Prosthesis, breast (implantable) N1 0 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2003, 
04; 2016, 03 
l!J C1813 Prosthesis, penile, inflatable 
N1 d" ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2003, 
04; 2016, 03 
l!J C1814 Retinal tamponade device, 
silicone oil 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833t 
Coding Clinic: 2006. 02, 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
• Newcode 
• Revised code
l!J Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
\......., 
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-C9899) 
l:J C1815 Prosthesis, urinary sphincter 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1: 2002, Q3: 2003, 
Q4; 2016, Q3 
l:J C1816 Receiver and/or transmitter, 
neurostimulator (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3, 2003, 
O4;2016,Q3;2022,Q4 
l:J C1817 Septal defect implant system, 
intracardiac 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, 03; 2003, 
Q4; 2016 Q3, 2016, Q3 
l:J C1818 Integrated keratoprosthesis 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2016 03: 2016, 03 
l:J-C1819 Surgical tissue localization and excision 
device (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 01, 2016, 03 
l:J C1820 Generator, neurostimulator (implantable), 
with rechargeable battery and 
charging system. 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q4, 2006, 01, 2006. 
01; 2016, 01, 2016, Q2; 2016, 03 
l:J C1821 lnterspinous process distraction 
device (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 01; 2009, Q2, 2016, 03 
l:J C1822 Generator, neurostimulator (implantable), 
high frequency, with rechargeable 
battery and charging system 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1; 2016, 02; 2016, Q3 
l:J C1823 Generator, neurostimulator (implantable), 
non-rechargeable, with transvenous 
sensing and stimulation leads 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01; 2023 01 
l:J C1824 Generator, cardiac contractility 
modulation (implantable) 
J7 ASCH 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q1 
(1815-(1874 
l:J C1825 Generator, neurostimulator (implantable), 
non-rechargeable with carotid sinus 
baroreceptor stimulation lead(s) 
J7 ASCH 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
l:J C1826 Generator, neurostimulator (implantable), 
includes closed feedback loop leads and all 
implantable components, with rechargeable 
battery and charging system 
J7 ASC H 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1; 2023, 01 
l:J C1827 Generator, neurostimulator (implantable), 
non-rechargeable, with implantable 
stimulation lead and external paired 
stimulation controller 
J7 ASC H 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2023. 01; 2023, Q1 
l:J C1830 Powered bone marrow biopsy 
needle 
N1 ASC N 
' 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q4; 2016, Q3 
l:J C1831 lnterbody cage, anterior, lateral or posterior, 
personalized (implantable) 
N1 ASCH 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4; 2021, 04; 2022, 
Q1; 2023, 01 
l:J C1832 Autograft suspension, including cell 
processing and application, and all system 
components 
J7 ASC H 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
l:J C1833 Monitor, cardiac, including intracardiac 
lead and all system components 
(implantable) 
J7 ASCH 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q1 
l:J C1839 Iris prosthesis 
J7 ASCH 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q1 
l:J C1840 Lens, intraocular (telescopic) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 04; 2012 Q1; 2012, 
Q3, 2016, Q3 
l:J C1874 Stent, coated/covered, with delivery 
system 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
f Male only 
¥ Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -23 = ASC Payment indicator 
A Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
11J1t1 MIPS code 
CPT9 is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
159 
C1875 - C1894 
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-C9899) 
160 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3, 2001, Q1; 2002, 
Q3; 2002, Q3; 2003, Q4; 2004, Q4; 2004, 
Q3,2016,Q3;2016,Q3;2023,Q2,2023,Q2 
ID C1875 Stent, coated/covered, without delivery 
system 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, Q3; 2002, 
Q3:2003,Q4;2004,Q4;2016,Q3,2016 
Q3;2020,Q2,2023,Q2 
ID C1876 Stent, non-coated/non-covered, with 
delivery system 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3; 2001, Q1; 2002, 
Q3; 2002, Q3; 2003, Q4; 2004, Q4; 2016, 
Q3; 2016, Q3 
ID C1877 Stent, non-coated/non-covered, 
without delivery system 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3; 2001, Q1, 2002, 
Q3; 2002, Q3; 2003, Q4; 2004, Q4, 2016, Q3 
ID C1878 Material for vocal cord medialization, 
synthetic (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3 2016. 
Q3; 2016, Q3 
ID C1880 Vena cava filter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3, 2003, 
Q4 2016. Q3 
ID C1881 Dialysis access system 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, Q3; 2003, 
Q4, 2016, Q3 
ID C1882 Cardioverter-defibrillator, other than single 
or dual chamber (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2004, 
Q4; 2006, Q4; 2006, Q2; 2012, Q2, 2016, 
Q3; 2016 Q3 
ID C1883 Adaptor/extension, pacing lead or 
neurostimulator lead (implantable) N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2002, 
Q1; 2007, Q1, 2016, Q3; 2016, Q3 
ID C1884 Embolization protective system 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2014. Q3, 2016, Q3, 2016, Q3 
ID C1885 Catheter, transluminal angioplasty, 
laser 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3, 2003, 
Q4, 2004, Q4; 2016, Q1; 2016, Q3; 2016, Q3 
ID C1886 Catheter, extravascular tissue ablation, 
any modality (insertable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q3 
ID C1887 Catheter, guiding (may include infusion/ 
perfusion capability) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3; 2001, Q1; 2002, 
Q3; 2004, Q4; 2016, Q3 
ID C1888 Catheter, ablation, non-cardiac, 
endovascular (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q3: 2016, Q3 ,
ID C1889 lmplantable/insertable device, 
not otherwise classified 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
ID C1890 No implantable/insertable device used with 
device-intensive procedures 
J7 ASC E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
ID C1891 Infusion pump, non-programmable, 
permanent (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T} 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, Q3; 2003, 
Q4, 2004, Q4· 2016, Q3 
ID C1892 Introducer/sheath, guiding, intracardiac 
electrophysiological, fixed-curve, 
peel-away 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2004, 
Q4; 2016, Q3; 2016, Q3 
ID C1893 Introducer/sheath, guiding, intracardiac 
electrophysiological, fixed-curve, other than 
peel-away 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3, 2001, Q1; 2002, 
Q3, 2004, Q4, 2016, Q3 
ID C1894 Introducer/sheath, other than guiding, 
other than intracardiac 
electrophysiological, non-laser 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, Q3; 2016, 
Q3; 2016, Q3; 2019, Q2 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
II Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
LJ 
'-
'-
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-(9899) 
m C1895 Lead, cardioverter-defibrillator, endocardial 
dual coil (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, Q3; 2004, 
Q4, 2006, Q4; 2006, Q2: 2016, Q3 
m C1896 Lead, cardioverter-defibrillator, other 
than endocardial single or dual coil 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute. 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1, 2002, Q3, 2004, 
Q4, 2006, Q4; 2006, Q2; 2016, Q3 
m C1897 Lead, neurostimulator test kit 
(implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2002, 
Q1, 2006, Q4: 2007, Q1, 2016, Q3 
m C1898 Lead, pacemaker, other than transvenous 
VDD single pass 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001 Q3; 2001, Q1; 2002, 
Q3, 2002, Q3; 2006, Q4, 2016, Q3 
m C1899 Lead, pacemaker/cardioverter-defibrillator 
combination (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3, 2004, 
Q4; 2006, Q4; 2016, Q3 
m C1900 Lead, left ventricular coronary venous 
system 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q4; 2006 Q4, 2016, 
Q3, 2016, Q3 
m C1982 Catheter, pressure-generating, one-way 
valve, intermittently occlusive 
J7 ASC H 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q1 
m C2596 Probe, image-guided, robotic, waterjet 
ablation 
J7 ASC H 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q1 
m C2613 Lung biopsy plug with delivery 
system 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q3 
m C2614 Probe, percutaneous lumbar 
discectomy 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2016. Q3 
C1895 - C2620 
m C2615 Sealant, pulmonary, liquid 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2003, 
Q4; 2016, Q3; 2016, Q3 
BRACHYTHERAPY SOURCES (C2616), SEE ALSO 
BRACHYTHERAPY SOURCES (C1716-C1719); 
BRACHYTHERAPY SOURCES (C2634-C2699) 
m C2616 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, 
yttrium-90, per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: 14B 
Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q3; 2003, Q3; 2004, 
Q4; 2004, Q2; 2007, Q2; 2016, Q3; 2016, 
Q3, 2016, Q3 
ASSORTED CARDIOVASCULAR AND GENITOURINARY 
DEVICES (C2617-C2631) 
m C2617 Stent, non-coronary, temporary, without 
delivery system 
, 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2003, 
Q4, 2004, Q4; 2016, Q3; 2016, Q3; 2016, 
Q3; 2018, Q1 
m C2618 Probe/needle, cryoablation 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2003, 
Q4,2004,Q4;2016,Q3 
m C2619 Pacemaker, dual chamber, non rate-
responsive (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3; 2001, Q1, 2002, 
Q3; 2006, Q4; 2016, Q3 
m C2620 Pacemaker, single chamber, non 
rate-responsive (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2003, 
Q4;2004,Q4;2006,Q4;2016,Q3 
Pacemaker 
,/' Male only 
1 Female only 
f) Age
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 • 23 = ASC Payment Indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Status indicator 
llJlt1 MIPScode 
cp-,. is a registered trademark of the Amencan Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
161 
C2621 - C2641 
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-C9899) 
162 
E C2621 Pacemaker, other than single or dual 
chamber (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2002, 
03; 2003, 04; 2006, 04; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
E C2622 Prosthesis, penile, non-
inflatable 
N1 d" ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01 · 2002. 03; 2003, 
04, 2016, 03 
E C2623 Catheter, transluminal angioplasty, 
drug-coated, non-laser 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute. 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 03 
E C2624 Implantable wireless pulmonary artery 
pressure sensor with delivery catheter, 
including all system components 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute. 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 03 
E C2625 Stent, non-coronary, temporary, 
with delivery system 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute· 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001 01, 2002, 03, 2003, 
04; 2004, 04, 2016, 03: 2016, 03 
E C2626 Infusion pump, non-programmable, 
temporary (implantable) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03, 2004, 
04; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
E C2627 Catheter, suprapubic/cystoscopic N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01, 2002, 03, 2003, 
04; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
E C2628 Catheter, occlusion 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute. 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2003, 
04; 2004, 04; 2016, 03 
E C2629 Introducer/sheath, other than guiding, 
other than intracardiac 
electrophysiological, laser 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2016, 03 
E C2630 Catheter, electrophysiology, diagnostic/ 
ablation, other than 3D or vector 
mapping, cool-tip 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03; 2009, 
02; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
E C2631 Repair device, urinary, incontinence, 
without sling graft 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 01; 2002, 03, 2003, 
04; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
BRACHYTHERAPY SOURCES (C2634-C2699), 
SEE ALSO BRACHYTHERAPY SOURCES (C1716-C1719); 
BRACHYTHERAPY SOURCES (C2616) 
E C2634 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, high 
activity, iodine-125, greater than 1.01 mCi 
(NIST), per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 04; 2005, 02; 2007, 
02; 2009, 02; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
E C2635 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, high 
activity, palladium-103, greater than 2.2 mCi 
(NIST), per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute· 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 04; 2005, 02; 2007, 
02; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
E C2636 Brachytherapy linear source, non-stranded, 
palladium-103, per 1 mm 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 04; 2007, 02, 2016, 
03: 2016, 03 
E C2637 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, 
ytterbium-169, per source 
B 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03; 2007, 02· 2016, 
03; 2016, 03 
E C2638 Brachytherapy source, stranded, 
iodine-125, per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 02, 2016, 03, 2016, 03 
E C2639 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, 
iodine-125, per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 02; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
E C2640 Brachytherapy source, stranded, 
palladium-103, per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute· 1833(1)(2) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 02; 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
liJ C2641 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, 
palladium-103, per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 02; 2016, 03, 2016, 03 
• Newcode
... Revised code 
II Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
(_ 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
l!J C2642 Brachytherapy source, stranded, 
cesium-131, per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B 
Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 02, 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
l!J C2643 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, 
cesium-131, per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B 
Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 02, 2016 03, 2016, 03 
l!J C2644 Brachytherapy source, cesium-131 chloride 
solution, per millicurie 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
l!J C2645 Brachytherapy planar source, Palladium-103, 
per square millimeter 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 03; 2016, 03 
l!J C2698 Brachytherapy source, stranded, 
not otherwise specified, 
per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 03; 2007, 02; 2016, 
03, 2016 03 
l!J C2699 Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, not 
otherwise specified, per source 
H2 ASC U 
BETOS: I4B 
Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 03; 2007, 02, 2009, 
02;2016,03;2016,03 
SKIN SUBSTITUTE GRAFT APPLICATION (C5271-C5278) 
l!J C5271 Application of low cost skin substitute graft 
to trunk, arms, legs, total wound surface 
area up to 100 sq cm; first 25 sq cm or less 
wound surface area 
G2 ASC T 
BETOS: PSA Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
l!J C5272 Application of low cost skin substitute graft 
to trunk, arms, legs, total wound surface 
area up to 100 sq cm; each additional 
25 sq cm wound surface area, or part 
thereof (list separately in addition to 
code for primary procedure) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
l!J C5273 Application of low cost skin substitute graft 
to trunk, arms, legs, total wound surface 
area greater than or equal to 100 sq cm; 
first 100 sq cm wound surface area, 
or 1 % of body area of infants and 
children 
G2 ASC T 
(2642 - (5278 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
l!J C5274 Application of low cost skin substitute graft to 
trunk, arms, legs, total wound surface area 
greater than or equal to 100 sq cm; each 
additional 100 sq cm wound surface area, or 
part thereof, or each additional 1 % of body 
area of infants and children, or part thereof 
(list separately in addition to code for primary 
procedure) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
l!J C5275 Application of low cost skin substitute graft 
to face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, 
orbits, genitalia, hands, feet, and/or multiple 
digits, total wound surface area up to 
100 sq cm; first 25 sq cm or less wound 
surface area 
G2 ASC T 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Statute: 1833(t) 
' 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
l!J C5276 Application of low cost skin substitute 
graft to face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, 
ears, orbits, genitalia, hands, feet, and/ 
or multiple digits, total wound surface area 
up to 100 sq cm; each additional 25 sq cm 
wound surface area, or part thereof 
(list separately in addition to code for primary 
procedure) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
l!J C5277 Application of low cost skin substitute graft 
to face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, 
orbits, genitalia, hands, feet, and/or multiple 
digits, total wound surface area greater than 
or equal to 100 sq cm; first 100 sq cm wound 
surface area, or 1 % of body area of infants 
and children 
G2 ASC T 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
l!J C5278 Application of low cost skin substitute graft 
to face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, 
orbits, genitalia, hands, feet, and/or multiple 
digits, total wound surface area greater 
than or equal to 100 sq cm; each additional 
100 sq cm wound surface area, or part 
thereof, or each additiooal 1 % of body 
area of infants and children, or part thereof 
(list separately in addition to code for 
primary procedure) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
d' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
E1DI Paid under the DME fee schedule 
½ MIPS code 
CPT'" ,s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
163 
C7500 - C7511 
MISCELLANEOUS SURGICAL PROCEDURES (C7500-C7560) 
8 C7500 Debridement, bone including epidermis, 
dermis, subcutaneous tissue, muscle and/ 
or fascia, if performed, first 20 sq cm or 
less with manual preparation and insertion 
of deep (eg, subfacial) drug-delivery 
device(s) 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P5A Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
8 C7501 Percutaneous breast biopsies using 
stereotactic guidance, with placement 
of breast localization device(s) (eg, clip, 
metallic pellet), when performed, and 
imaging of the biopsy specimen, when 
performed, all lesions unilateral and bilateral 
(for single lesion biopsy, use appropriate 
code) 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P1 A Major procedure - breast 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
8 C7502 Percutaneous breast biopsies using 
magnetic resonance guidance, with 
placement of breast localization device(s) 
(eg, clip, metallic pellet), when performed, 
and imaging of the biopsy specimen, when 
performed, all lesions unilateral or bilateral 
(for single lesion biopsy, use appropriate 
code) 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P1 A Major procedure - breast 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
8 C7503 Open biopsy or excision of deep cervical 
node(s) with intraoperative identification 
(eg, mapping) of sentinel lymph node(s) 
including injection of non-radioactive 
dye when performed 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
8 C7504 Percutaneous vertebroplasties (bone 
biopsies included when performed), 
first cervicothoracic and any additional 
cervicothoracic or lumbosacral vertebral 
bodies, unilateral or bilateral injection, 
inclusive of all imaging guidance G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P3D Major procedure, orthopedic 
- other
Price established using national RVUs
Coding Clinic: 2023. Q1
8 C7505 Percutaneous vertebroplasties (bone 
biopsies included when performed}, 
first lumbosacral and any additional 
cervicothoracic or lumbosacral vertebral 
bodies, unilateral or bilateral injection, 
inclusive of all imaging guidance G2 ASC E 1 
BETOS: P3D Major procedure, orthopedic 
- other
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-C9899) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
8 C7506 Arthrodesis, interphalangeal joints, with or 
without internal fixation 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P5B Ambulatory procedures -
musculoskeletal 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023. Q1 
8 C7507 Percutaneous vertebral augmentations, 
first thoracic and any additional thoracic or 
lumbar vertebral bodies, including cavity 
creations (fracture reductions and bone 
biopsies included when performed) using 
mechanical device (eg, kyphoplasty), 
unilateral or bilateral cannulations, 
inclusive of all imaging guidance G2 ASC El 
BETOS: P3D Major procedure, orthopedic 
- other
Price established using national RVUs
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1
8 C7508 Percutaneous vertebral augmentations, first 
lumbar and any additional thoracic or'lumbar 
vertebral bodies, including cavity creations 
(fracture reductions and bone biopsies 
included when performed) using mechanical 
device (eg, kyphoplasty), unilateral or 
bilateral cannulations, inclusive of 
all imaging guidance 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P3D Major procedure, orthopedic 
- other
Price established using national RVUs
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1
8 C7509 Bronchoscopy, rigid or flexible, diagnostic 
with cell washing(s) when performed, with 
computer-assisted image-guided navigation, 
including fluoroscopic guidance when 
performed 
G2 ASC E 1 
BETOS: PBF Endoscopy - bronchoscopy 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
8 C7510 Bronchoscopy, rigid or flexible, with 
bronchial alveolar lavage(s), with computer­
assisted image-guided navigation, 
including fluoroscopic guidance when 
performed 
G2 ASC E 1 
BETOS: PBF Endoscopy - bronchoscopy 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
8 C7511 Bronchoscopy, rigid or flexible, with single 
or multiple bronchial or endobronchial 
biopsy(ies). single or multiple sites, with 
computer-assisted image-guided navigation, 
including fluoroscopic guidance when 
performed 
G2 ASC E 1
BETOS: PBF Endoscopy - bronchoscopy 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
• New code
A Revised code 
8 Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
164 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
L 
'--
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-(9899) 
Bl C7512 Bronchoscopy, rigid or flexible, with single 
or multiple bronchial or endobronchial 
biopsy(ies), single or multiple sites, with 
transendoscopic endobronchial ultrasound 
(ebus) during bronchoscopic diagnostic or 
therapeutic intervention(s) for peripheral 
lesion(s), including fluoroscopic guidance 
when performed 
G2 ASC E 1 
BETOS: P8F Endoscopy - bronchoscopy 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
Bl C7513 Dialysis circuit, introduction of needle(s) and/ 
or catheter(s), with diagnostic angiography 
of the dialysis circuit, including all direct 
puncture(s) and catheter placement(s), 
injection(s) of contrast, all necessary imaging 
from the arterial anastomosis and adjacent 
artery through entire venous outflow 
including the inferior or superior vena cava, 
fluoroscopic guidance, with transluminal 
balloon angioplasty of central dialysis 
segment, performed through dialysis circuit, 
including all required imaging, radiological 
supervision and interpretation, image 
documentation and report 
R2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
Bl C7514 Dialysis circuit, introduction of needle(s) and/ 
or catheter(s). with diagnostic angiography 
of the dialysis circuit, including all direct 
puncture(s) and catheter placement(s), 
injection(s) of contrast, all necessary 
imaging from the arterial anastomosis 
and adjacent artery through entire venous 
outflow including the inferior or superior 
vena cava, fluoroscopic guidance, with all 
angioplasty in the central dialysis segment, 
and transcatheter placement of intravascular 
stent(s), central dialysis segment, performed 
through dialysis circuit, including all required 
imaging, radiological supervision and 
interpretation, image documentation and 
report 
R2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
Bl C7515 Dialysis circuit, introduction of needle(s) and/ 
or catheter(s). with diagnostic angiography 
of the dialysis circuit, including all direct 
puncture(s) and catheter placement(s), 
injection(s) of contrast, all necessary imaging 
from the arterial anastomosis and adjacent 
artery through entire venous outflow 
including the inferior or superior vena cava, 
fluoroscopic guidance, with dialysis circuit 
permanent endovascular embolization or 
occlusion of main circuit or any accessory 
veins, including all required imaging, 
(7512-(7519 
radiological supervision and interpretation, 
image documentation and report R2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
Bl C7516 Catheter placement in coronary artery(s) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, with endoluminal imaging 
of initial coronary vessel or graft using 
intravascular ultrasound (ivus) or optical 
coherence tomography (oct) during 
diagnostic evaluation and/or therapeutic 
intervention including imaging supervision, 
interpretation and report 
G2 ASC E 1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
Bl C7517 Catheter placement in coronary artery(s) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, with iliac and/or femoral artery 
angiography, non-selective, bilateral or 
ipsilateral to catheter insertion, performed 
at the same time as cardiac catheterization 
and/or coronary angiography, includes 
positioning or placement of the catheter 
in the distal aorta or ipsilateral femoral or 
iliac artery, injection of dye, production 
of permanent images, and radiologic 
supervision and interpretation 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023 01 
Bl C7518 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation, with catheter placement(s) 
in bypass graft(s) (internal mammary, 
free arterial, venous grafts) including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for bypass 
graft angiography with endoluminal 
imaging of initial coronary vessel or graft 
using intravascular ultrasound (ivus) or 
optical coherence tomography (oct) during 
diagnostic evaluation and/or therapeutic 
intervention including imaging, supervision, 
interpretation and report-
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
Bl C7519 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
d' Male only 
7 Female only 
0 Age 
A2-Z3=ASCPaymentirdcator 
A Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
B11J Paid under the DME fee schedule 
l1JID MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
165 
C7520 - C7525 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
166 
interpretation, with catheter placement(s) 
in bypass graft(s) (internal mammary, 
free arterial, venous grafts) including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for bypass graft 
angiography with intravascular doppler 
velocity and/or pressure derived coronary 
flow reserve measurement (initial coronary 
vessel or graft) during coronary angiography 
including pharmacologically induced 
stress 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
ml C7520 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injeclion(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation, with catheter placement(s) 
in bypass graft(s) (internal mammary, 
free arterial, venous grafts) includes 
intraprocedural injection(s) for bypass graft 
angiography with iliac and/or femoral artery 
angiography, non-selective, bilateral or 
ipsilateral to catheter insertion, performed 
at the same lime as cardiac catheterizalion 
and/or coronary angiography, includes 
positioning or placement of the catheter 
in the distal aorta or ipsilateral femoral or 
iliac artery, injection of dye, production 
of permanent images, and radiologic 
supervision and interpretation 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F 
Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
8 C7521 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography with right heart catheterization 
with endoluminal imaging of initial coronary 
vessel or graft using intravascular ultrasound 
(ivus) or optical coherence tomography (act) 
during diagnostic evaluation and/or therapeutic 
intervention including imaging supervision, 
interpretation and report 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F 
Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
ml C7522 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injeclion(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation with right heart catheterization, 
with intravascular doppler velocity and/ 
or pressure derived coronary flow reserve 
measurement (initial coronary vessel 
or graft) during coronary angiography 
including pharmacologically induced 
stress 
G2 ASC E 1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
ml C7523 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation, with left heart catheterization 
including intraprocedural injection(s) for 
left ventriculography, when performed, with 
endoluminal imaging of initial coronary 
vessel or graft using intravascular ultrasound 
(ivus) or optical coherence tomography 
(act) during diagnostic evaluation and/ 
or therapeutic intervention including 
imaging supervision, interpretation and 
report 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F 
Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
' 
ml C7524 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation, with left heart catheterization 
including intraprocedural injection(s) for 
left ventriculography, when performed, 
with intravascular doppler velocity and/ 
or pressure derived coronary flow reserve 
measurement (initial coronary vessel 
or graft) during coronary angiography 
including pharmacologically induced 
stress 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
ml C7525 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation, with left heart catheterization 
including intraprocedural injection(s) for left 
ventriculography, when performed, catheter 
placement(s) in bypass graft(s) (internal 
mammary, free arterial, venous grafts) with 
bypass graft angiography with endoluminal 
imaging of initial coronary vessel or graft 
using intravascular ultrasound (ivus) or 
optical coherence tomography (act) during 
diagnostic evaluation and/o(therapeutic 
intervention including imaging supervision, 
interpretation and report 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
• Newcode 
.A Revised code 
8 Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
fiU Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Chnic 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
C 
'--
(_ 
Outpatient PPS (C10S2-C9899) 
B C7526 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation, with left heart catheterization 
including intraprocedural injection(s) for left 
ventriculography, when performed, catheter 
placement(s) in bypass graft(s) (internal 
mammary, free arterial, venous grafts) with 
bypass graft angiography with intravascular 
doppler velocity and/or pressure derived 
coronary flow reserve measurement (initial 
coronary vessel or graft) during coronary 
angiography including pharmacologically 
induced stress 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B C7527 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation, with right and left heart 
catheterization including intraprocedural 
injection{s) for left ventriculography, when 
performed, with endoluminal imaging of initial 
coronary vessel or graft using intravascular 
ultrasound (ivus) or optical coherence 
tomography (oct) during diagnostic 
evaluation and/or therapeutic intervention 
including imaging supervision, interpretation 
and report 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B C7528 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation, with right and left heart 
catheterization including intraprocedural 
injection(s) for left ventriculography, when 
performed, with intravascular doppler velocity 
and/or pressure derived coronary flow reserve 
measurement (initial coronary vessel or 
graft) during coronary angiography including 
pharmacologically induced stress 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B C7529 Catheter placement in coronary artery(ies) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation, with right and left heart 
catheterization including intraprocedural 
injection{s) for left ventriculography, when 
performed, catheter placement{s) in bypass 
C7526 - C7532 
graft(s) (internal mammary, free arterial, 
venous grafts) with bypass graft angiography 
with intravascular doppler velocity and/ 
or pressure derived coronary flow reserve 
measurement (initial coronary vessel or 
graft) during coronary angiography including 
pharmacologically induced stress 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B C7530 Dialysis circuit, introduction of needle{s) and/ 
or catheter(s), with diagnostic angiography 
of the dialysis circuit, including all direct 
puncture(s) and catheter placement(s), 
injection(s) of contrast, all necessary 
imaging from the arterial anastomosis 
and adjacent artery through entire venous 
outflow including the inferior or superior 
vena cava, fluoroscopic guidance, with 
transluminal balloon angioplasty, peripheral 
dialysis segment, including all imaging and 
radiological supervision and interpretation 
necessary to perform the angioplasty and all 
angioplasty in the central dialysis segment, 
with transcatheter placement of intravascular 
stent(s), central dialysis segment, performed 
through dialysis circuit, including all imaging, 
radiological supervision and interpretation, 
documentation and report 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B C7531 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, femoral, popliteal artery(ies), 
unilateral, with transluminal angioplasty 
with intravascular ultrasound (initial 
noncoronary vessel) during diagnostic 
evaluation and/or therapeutic intervention, 
including radiological supervision and 
interpretation 
JB ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B C7532 Transluminal balloon angioplasty (except 
lower extremity artery(ies) for occlusive 
disease, intracranial, coronary, pulmonary, 
or dialysis circuit), initial artery, open or 
percutaneous, including all imaging and 
radiological supervision and interpretation 
necessary to perform.the angioplasty 
within the same artery, with intravascular 
ultrasound (initial noncoronary vessel) during 
diagnostic evaluation and/or therapeutic 
intervention, including radiological 
supervision and interpretation 
JB ASC E1 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
a' Male only 
lt Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
CIW MIPScode
CPI' 1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
167 
(7533 - (7544 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-(9899) 
168 
II C7533 Percutaneous transluminal coronary 
angioplasty, single major coronary 
artery or branch with transcatheter 
placement of radiation delivery device 
for subsequent coronary intravascular 
brachytherapy 
J8 ASC E 1 
BETOS: P2D Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Coronary angioplasty (PTCA) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
II C7534 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, femoral, popliteal artery(ies), 
unilateral, with atherectomy, includes 
angioplasty within the same vessel. when 
performed with intravascular ultrasound 
(initial noncoronary vessel) during diagnostic 
evaluation and/or therapeutic intervention, 
including radiological supervision and 
interpretation 
JB ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
II C7535 Revascularization, endovascular, open 
or percutaneous, femoral, popliteal 
artery(ies), unilateral, with transluminal 
stent placement(s), includes angioplasty 
within the same vessel, when performed, 
with intravascular ultrasound (initial 
noncoronary vessel) during diagnostic 
evaluation and/or therapeutic intervention, 
including radiological supervision and 
interpretation 
JB ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
l!J C7537 Insertion of new or replacement of 
permanent pacemaker with atrial 
transvenous electrode(s), with insertion of 
pacing electrode, cardiac venous system, for 
left ventricular pacing, at time of insertion of 
implantable debribrillator or pacemake pulse 
generator (eg, for upgrade to dual chamber 
system) 
JB ASC E1 
BETOS: P2E Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Pacemaker insertion 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
l!J C7538 Insertion of new or replacement of 
permanent pacemaker with ventricular 
transvenous electrode(s), with insertion of 
pacing electrode, cardiac venous system, for 
left ventricular pacing, at time of insertion of 
implantable defribrillator or pacemaker pulse 
generator (eg, for upgrade to dual chamber 
system) 
J8 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2E Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Pacemaker insertion 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
l!J C7539 Insertion of new or replacement of 
permanent pacemaker with atrial and 
ventricular transvenous electrode(s), with 
insertion of pacing electrode, cardiac venous 
system, for left ventricular pacing, at time 
of insertion of implantable defibrillator or 
pacemaker pulse generator (eg, for upgrade 
to dual chamber system) 
JB ASC E1 
BETOS: P2E Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Pacemaker insertion 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023. 01 
II C7540 Removal of permanent pacemaker pulse 
generator with replacement of pacemaker 
pulse generator, dual lead system, with 
insertion of pacing electrode, cardiac venous 
system, for left ventricular pacing, at time 
of insertion of implantable defibrillator or 
pacemaker pulse generator (eg, for upgrade 
to dual chamber system) 
JB ASC E1 
BETOS: P2E Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Pacemaker insertion ' 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
l!J C7541 Diagnostic endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiopancreatography (ercp), 
including collection of specimen(s) by 
brushing or washing, when performed, with 
endoscopic cannulation of papilla with direct 
visualization of pancreatic/common bile 
ducts(s) 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: PBB Endoscopy - upper 
gastrointestinal 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
l!J C7542 Endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiopancreatography (ercp) with 
biopsy, single or multiple, with endoscopic 
cannulation of papilla with direct 
visualization of pancreatic/common 
bile ducts(s) 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: PBB Endoscopy - upper 
gastrointestinal 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
l!J C7543 Endoscopic retrograde 
choiangiopancreatography (ercp) with 
sphincterotomy/papillotomy, with endoscopic 
cannulation of papilla with direct 
visualization of pancreatic/common 
bile ducts(s) 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P88 Endoscopy - upper 
gastrointestinal 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023. Q1 
l!J C7544 Endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiopancreatography (ercp) with 
removal of calculi/debris from biliary/ 
pancreatic duct(s), with endoscopic 
• Newcode
... Revised code 
II Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT-Is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
'-
I 
\......I 
(_ 
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-(9899) 
cannulation of papilla with direct 
visualization of pancreatic/common 
bile ducts(s) 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: PBB Endoscopy - upper 
gastrointestinal 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B C7545 Percutaneous exchange of biliary drainage 
catheter (eg, external, internal-external, or 
conversion of internal-external to external 
only), with removal of calculi/debris from 
biliary duct(s) and/or gallbladder, including 
destruction of calculi by any method (eg, 
mechanical, electrohydraulic, lithotripsy) 
when performed, including diagnostic 
cholangiography(ies) when performed, 
imaging guidance (eg, fluoroscopy), and all 
associated radiological supervision 
and interpretation 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B C7546 Removal and replacement of externally 
accessible nephroureteral catheter 
(eg, external/internal stent) requiring 
fluoroscopic guidance, with ureteral 
stricture balloon dilation, including imaging 
guidance and all associated radiological 
supervision and interpretation 
G2 ASC E 1 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B C7547 Convert nephrostomy catheter to 
nephroureteral catheter, percutaneous 
via pre-existing nephrostomy tract, 
with ureteral stricture balloon dialation, 
including diagnostic nephrostogram and/ 
or ureterogram when performed, imaging 
guidance (eg, ultrasound and/or fluoroscopy) 
and all associated radiological supervision 
and interpretation 
JS ASC E1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B C7548 Exchange nephrostomy catheter, 
percutaneous, with ureteral stricture balloon 
dilation, including diagnostic nephrostogram 
and/or ureterogram when performed, 
imaging guidance (eg, ultrasound and/or 
fluoroscopy) and all associated radiological 
supervision and interpretation 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B C7549 Change of ureterostomy tube or externally 
accessible ureteral stent via ilea! conduit with 
ureteral stricture balloon dilation, including 
imaging guidance (eg, ultrasound and/or 
C7S4S - C7SS3 
fluoroscopy) and all associated radiological 
supervision and interpretation 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B C7550 Cystourethroscopy, with biopsy(ies) 
with adjuclive blue light cystoscopy 
with fluorescent imaging agent 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: PBE Endoscopy - cystoscopy 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B C7551 Excision of major peripheral nerve neuroma, 
except sciatic, with implantation of nerve 
end into bone or muscle 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B C7552 Catheter placement in coronary artery(s) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation; with catheter placement(s) 
in bypass graft(s) (internal mammary, 
free arterial, venous grafts) including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for bypass graft 
angiography and right heart catheterization 
with intravascular doppler velocity and/ 
or pressure derived coronary flow reserve 
measurement (coronary vessel or graft) 
during coronary angiography including 
pharmacologically induced stress, 
initial vessel 
G2 ASC El 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B C7553 Catheter placement in coronary artery(s) 
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation; with right and left heart 
catheterization including intraprocedural 
injection(s) for left ventriculography, when 
performed, catheter placement(s) in bypass 
graft(s) (internal mammary, free arterial, 
venous grafts) with bypass graft angiography 
with pharmacologic agent administration 
(eg, inhaled nitric oxide, intravenous infusion 
of nitroprusside, dobutamine, milrinone, 
or other agent) including assessing 
hemodynamic measurements before, during, 
after and repeat pharmacologic agent 
administration, when performed 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
a' Male only 
ff Female only 
0 Age 
Al. -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ClW MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPr-i5 a registered trademark of the American Medico/ Association. All rights reserved. 
169 
M 
0 °' 
....... 
u 
IP:::t' 
LI\ 
LI\ 
....... 
u 
CJ\ 
CJ\ 
00 
CJ\ 
u 
I N 
in 
0 ... 
u 
V, 
0.. 
0.. .... 
z 
w 
i 
.... 
::, 
0 
(7554 - (7903 
8 C7554 Cystourethroscopy with adjunctive blue 
light cystoscopy with fluorescent 
imaging agent 
G2 ASC E 1 
BETOS: P8E Endoscopy - cystoscopy 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023 Q1 
8 C7555 Thyroidectomy, total or complete with 
parathyroid autotransplantation 
G2 ASC E1 
BETOS: P1G Major procedure - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2023 Q1 
• I!) C7556 Bronchoscopy, rigid or flexible, with bronchial
alveolar lavage and transendoscopic 
endobronchial ultrasound (ebus) during 
bronchoscopic diagnostic or therapeutic 
intervention(s) for peripheral lesion(s), 
including fluoroscopic guidance, 
when performed 
BETOS: P8F Endoscopy - bronchoscopy 
Value not established 
• l!J C7557 Catheter placement in coronary artery(s)
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation with left heart catheterization 
including intraprocedural injection(s) for 
left ventriculography, when performed and 
intraprocedural coronary fractional flow 
reserve (ffr) with 3d functional mapping of 
color-coded ffr values for the coronary tree, 
derived from coronary angiogram data, for 
real-time review and interpretation of possible 
atherosclerotic stenos is( es) intervention 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Value not established 
• l!J C7558 Catheter placement in coronary artery(s)
for coronary angiography, including 
intraprocedural injection(s) for coronary 
angiography, imaging supervision and 
interpretation with right and left heart 
catheterization including intraprocedural 
injection(s) for left ventriculography, when 
performed, catheter placement(s) in bypass 
graft(s) (internal mammary, free arterial, 
venous grafts) with bypass graft angiography 
with pharmacologic agent administration 
(eg, inhaled nitric oxide, intravenous infusion 
of nitroprusside, dobutamine, milrinone, 
or other agent) including assessing 
hemodynamic measurements before, during, 
after and repeat pharmacologic agent 
administration, when performed 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Value not established 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-(9899) 
• I!) C7560 Endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography (ercp) with 
removal of foreign body(s) or stent(s) from 
biliary/pancreatic duct(s) and endoscopic 
cannulation of papilla with direct visualization 
of pancreatic/common bile duct(s) 
BETOS: P8B Endoscopy - upper 
gastrointestinal 
Value not established 
MENTAL HEALTH EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT 
SERVICES (C7900-C7903) 
8 C7900 Service for diagnosis, evaluation, or 
treatment of a mental health or substance 
use disorder, initial 15-29 minutes, provided 
remotely by hospital staff who are licensed 
to provide mental health services under 
applicable state law(s), when the patient is 
in their home, and there is no associated 
professional service 
S 
BETOS: M2A Hospital visit - initial 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
' 
8 C7901 Service for diagnosis, evaluation, or 
treatment of a mental health or substance 
use disorder, initial 30-60 minutes, provided 
remotely by hospital staff who are licensed 
to provided mental health services under 
applicable state law(s), when the patient is 
in their home, and there is no associated 
professional service 
S 
BETOS: M2A Hospital visit - initial 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
(9 C7902 Service for diagnosis, evaluation, or treatment 
of a mental health or substance use disorder, 
each additional 15 minutes, provided remotely 
by hospital staff who are licensed to provide 
mental health services under applicable state 
law(s), when the patient is in their home, and 
there is no associated professional service 
(list separately in addition to code for primary 
service) 
N 
BETOS: M2B Hospital visit - subsequent 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
• l!J C7903 Group psychotherapy service for diagnosis,
evaluation, or treatment of a mental health 
or substance use disorder provided remotely 
by hospital staff who are licensed to provide 
mental health services under applicable state 
law(s), when the patient is in their home, and 
there is no associated professional service 
BETOS: M2A Hospital visit - initial 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
ll Carrier judgment 
I!) Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
170 
CPT-is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
L 
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-C9899} 
MAGNETIC RESONANCE ANGIOGRAPHY, TRUNK AND 
LOWER EXTREMITIES (C8900-C8920) 
EJ C8900 Magnetic resonance angiography with 
contrast, abdomen 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging· MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40_1.2 
EJ C8901 Magnetic resonance angiography 
without contrast, abdomen 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging • MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
EJ C8902 Magnetic resonance angiography without 
contrast followed by with contrast, 
abdomen 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40.1.2 
EJ C8903 Magnetic resonance imaging with 
contrast, breast; unilateral 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging • MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
EJ C8905 Magnetic resonance imaging without 
contrast followed by with contrast, 
breast; unilateral 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging • MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
EJ C8906 Magnetic resonance imaging with 
contrast, breast; bilateral 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA:
other 
Statute: 1833(1)(2) 
EJ C8908 Magnetic resonance imaging without 
contrast followed by with contrast, 
breast; bilateral 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging • MRI/MRA:
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
nJ C8909 Magnetic resonance angiography 
with contrast, chest (excluding 
myocardium) 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(1)(2) 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40.1.2 
EJ C8910 Magnetic resonance angiography 
without contrast, chest (excluding 
myocardium) 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging • MRI/MRA:
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
C8900-C8921 
EJ C8911 Magnetic resonance angiography without 
contrast followed by with contrast, 
chest (excluding myocardium) 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40.1.2 
EJ C8912 Magnetic resonance angiography 
with contrast, lower extremity 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40.1.2 
EJ C8913 Magnetic resonance angiography 
without contrast, lower extremity Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
EJ C8914 Magnetic resonance angiography without 
contrast followed by with contrast, 
lower extremity 
, Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t)(2) 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40.1.2 
EJ C8918 Magnetic resonance angiography 
with contrast, pelvis 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute· 430 BIPA 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40.1.2 
nJ C8919 Magnetic resonance angiography 
without contrast, pelvis 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 430 BIPA 
EJ C8920 Magnetic resonance angiography without 
contrast followed by with contrast, 
pelvis 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 430 BIPA 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40.1.2 
TRANSESOPHAGEAL/TRANSTHORACIC 
ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY (C8921-C8930) 
EJ C8921 Transthoracic echocardiography with 
contrast, or without contrast followed by with 
contrast, for congenital cardiac anomalies; 
complete 
S 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4, 2008, Q2, 2009, 
Q2; 2012, Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2 
o" Male only 
7 Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Al-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
BIi Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A• Y = AP C Status indicator 
(l;!W MIPScode 
CPr-1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
171 
(8922 - (8931 
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-C9899) 
172 
liJ C8922 Transthoracic echocardiography with 
contrast, or without contrast followed by with 
contrast, for congenital cardiac anomalies; 
follow-up or limited study 
S 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2008, Q2
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
liJ C8923 Transthoracic echocardiography with 
contrast, or without contrast followed by with 
contrast, real-time with image documentation 
(2D), includes M-mode recording, when 
performed, complete, without spectral or 
color doppler echocardiography 
S 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2008, Q2
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
liJ C8924 Transthoracic echocardiography with 
contrast, or without contrast followed by with 
contrast, real-time with image documentation 
(2D), includes M-mode recording, when 
performed, follow-up or limited study 
S 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2008, Q2
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
liJ C8925 Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) 
with contrast, or without contrast followed 
by with contrast, real time with image 
documentation (2D) (with or without M-mode 
recording); including probe placement, image 
acquisition, interpretation and report 
s 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2007. Q4; 2008, Q2
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
liJ C8926 Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) 
with contrast, or without contrast followed 
by with contrast, for congenital cardiac 
anomalies: including probe placement, 
image acquisition, interpretation and 
re¡rt 
s 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2008, Q2
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
liJ C8927 Transesophageal echocardiography 
(TEE) with contrast, or without contrast 
followed by with contrast, for monitoring 
purposes, including probe placement, 
real time 2-dimensional image acquisition 
and interpretation leading to ongoing 
(continuous) assessment of (dynamically 
changing) cardiac pumping function and to 
therapeutic measures on an immediate time 
basis 
S 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4, 2008, Q2
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
liJ C8928 Transthoracic echocardiography with 
contrast, or without contrast followed by with 
contrast, real-time with image documentation 
(2D), includes M-mode recording, when 
performed, during rest and cardiovascular 
stress test using treadmill, bicycle exercise 
and/or pharmacologically induced stress, 
with interpretation and report 
S 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(1)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2008, Q2 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
liJ C8929 Transthoracic echocardiography with ' 
contrast, or without contrast followed by with 
contrast, real-time with image documentation 
(2D), includes M-mode recording, when 
performed, complete. with spectral doppler 
echocardiography, and with color flow 
doppler echocardiography 
S 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
liJ C8930 Transthoracic echocardiography, with
contrast, or without contrast followed 
by with contrast, real-time with image 
documentation (2D), includes M-mode 
recording, when performed, during rest and 
cardiovascular stress test using treadmill, 
bicycle exercise and/or pharmacologically 
induced stress, with interpretation and 
report; including performance of continuous 
electrocardiographic monitoring, 
with physician supervision 
S 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)(2)
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2012, Q3
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
MAGNETIC RESONANCE ANGIOGRAPHY, SPINE AND UPPER 
EXTREMITIES (C8931-C8936) 
liJ C8931 Magnetic resonance angiography 
with contrast, spinal canal and 
contents 
22 ASC 03 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
• New code
& Revised code 
lB Carrier judgment 
liJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" ,s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
(_ 
C 
(.,..
L 
Outpatient PPS (Cl 052-(9899) 
l:J C8932 Magnetic resonance angiography 
without contrast, spinal canal and 
contents 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: 120 Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
l:J C8933 Magnetic resonance angiography without 
contrast followed by with contrast, 
spinal canal and contents 
U. ASC Q3 
BETOS: 120 Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
l:J C8934 Magnetic resonance angiography 
with contrast, upper extremity 
U. ASC 03
BETOS: 120 Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
l:J C8935 Magnetic resonance angiography without 
contrast, upper extremity 
U. ASC 03
BETOS: 120 Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
l:J C8936 Magnetic resonance angiography without 
contrast followed by with contrast, 
upper extremity 
Z2 ASC 03 
BETOS: 120 Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
BREAST MRI - COMPUTER AIDED DETECTION (C8937) 
l:J C8937 Computer-aided detection, including 
computer algorithm analysis of breast 
mri image data for lesion detection/ 
characterization, pharmacokinetic 
analysis, with further physician review for 
interpretation (list separately in addition to 
code for primary procedure) 
N 
BETOS: 120 Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
MISCELLANEOUS DRUGS, BIOLOGICALS, AND SUPPLIES 
(C8957-C9488) 
l:J C8957 Intravenous infusion for therapy/diagnosis; 
initiation of prolonged infusion (more than 
8 hours), requiring use of portable or 
implantable pump 
S 
BETOS: P60 Minor procedures - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Value not established 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04, 2006, 04; 2008, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 230.2 
l:J C9046 Cocaine hydrochloride nasal solution 
(goprelto), 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 02; 2019, 02; 2023, 01 
(8932 - (91 so
l:J C9047 Injection, caplacizumab-
yhdp, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Drugs: CABLIVI 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
l:J C9067 Gallium ga-68, dotatoc, diagnostic, 
0.01 mci 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 04 
l:J C9088 Instillation, bupivacaine and meloxicam, 
1 mg/0.03 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Drugs: ZYNRELEF 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
l:J C9089 Bupivacaine, collagen-matrix 
implant, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Drugs: XARACOLL 
Coding Clinic: 2022. 01 
K2ASC N 
l:J C9101 Injection, oliceridine, 0.1 mg 
K28ASC G 
BETOS: 01A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Drugs: OLINVYK 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
l:J C9113 Injection, pantoprazole sodium, 
per vial 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l:J C9143 Cocaine hydrochloride nasal solution 
(numbrino), 1 mg 
N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
l:J C9144 Injection, bupivacaine 
(posimir), 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Drugs: POSIMIR 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
• l:J C9145 Injection, aprepitant,
(aponvie), 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Drugs: APONVIE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
K20ASC G 
K20ASC G 
• l:J C9150 Xenon xe-129 hyperpolarized gas,
diagnostic, per study dose 
N 
BETOS: I1E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2023. 03 
ri' Male only 
5t1- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3; ASC. Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
tlm MIPScode 
CPT" Is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
173 
(9159 - (9360 
• ID C9159 Injection, prothrombin complex concentrate
(human), balfaxar, per i.u. of factor IX 
a«¬­ 
O 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute· 1833(T) 
• ID C9160 Injection, daxibotulinumtoxina-lanm, 1 unit 0
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute. 1833(T) 
• E C9161 Injection, aflibercept hd, 1 mg
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute· 1833(T) 
• ID C9162 Injection, avacincaptad pegol, 0.1 mg
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• ID C9163 Injection, talquetamab-tgvs, 0.25 mg
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• ID C9164 Cantharidin for topical administration, 0.7%,
single unit dose applicator (3.2 mg) 
O 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• ID C9165 Injection, elranatamab-bcmm, 1 mg
0 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Statute. 1833(T) 
ID C9248 Injection, clevidipine
butyrate, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute· 1833(1) 
Drugs: CLEVIPREX 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q1; 2008, Q4 
ID C9250 Human plasma fibrin sealant, vapor-heated,
solvent-detergent (Artiss), 2ml 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute. 621 MMA 
Drugs: ARTISS 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q3 
ID C9254 Injection, lacosamide, 1 mg
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute· 621 MMA 
ID C9257 Injection, bevacizumab, 0.25 mg
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute. 1833(1) 
Drugs: AVASTIN 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q3 
ID C9285 Lidocaine 70 mg/tetracaine 70 mg,
per patch 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
E C9290 Injection, bupivacaine 
liposome, 1 mg 
K2 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Drugs: EXPAREL 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q2, 2023, Q1 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
ID C9293 Injection, glucarpidase, 10 units 
KS ASC E2
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
E C9352 Microporous collagen implantable tube 
(NeuraGen Nerve Guide), 
per centimeter length 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621 MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
ID C9353 Microporous collagen implantable slit
tube (NeuraWrap Nerve Protector), 
per centimeter length 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621 MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
E C9354 Acellular pericardia! tissue matrix of 
non-human origin (Veritas), 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621 MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2008. Q1 
E C9355 Collagen nerve cuff (NeuroMatrix), 
per 0.5 centimeter length 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621 MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
ID C9356 Tendon, porous matrix of cross-linked
collagen and glycosaminoglycan matrix 
(TenoGlide Tendon Protector Sheet), 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621 MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2008. Q3 
E C9358 Dermal substitute, native, non-denatured 
collagen, fetal bovine origin (SurgiMend 
Collagen Matrix), per 0.5 square 
centimeters 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS; D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621 MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q3; 2008, Q3, 2012, Q2 
E C9359 Porous purified collagen matrix bone void 
filler (lntegra Mozaik Osteoconductive 
Scaffold Putty, lntegra Os Osteoconductive 
Scaffold Putty), per 0.5 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q3 
liJ C9360 Dermal substitute, native, non-denatured
collagen, neonatal bovine orjgin (SurgiMend 
Collagen Matrix), per 0.5 square 
centimeters 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q3, 2012, Q2 
• Newcode 
• Revised code
Ii Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
174 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
\._. 
(_, 
L 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
l!J C9361 Collagen matrix nerve wrap (NeuroMend 
Collagen Nerve Wrap), per 0.5 centimeter 
length 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 03 
l!J C9362 Porous purified collagen matrix bone void 
filler (lntegra Mozaik Osteoconductive 
Scaffold Strip), per 0.5 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621 MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 03; 2010, 01 
l!J C9363 Skin substitute, lntegra Meshed 
Bilayer Wound Matrix, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medi.cal/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621 MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 03, 2012, 02; 
2010, 01 
ID C9364 Porcine implant, Permacol, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D 1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 621MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 03 
l!J C9399 Unclassified drugs or biologicals 
K7 ASC A 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 621MMA 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 04; 2005, 04; 2008, 
01; 2009, 01; 2009, 03; 2011, 04; 2013, 
01; 2010, 03; 2014, 02; 2014, 04; 2016, 
04; 2017, 01; 2017, 01; 2023, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-17, 90.3 
ID C9460 Injection, cangrelor, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Drugs: KENGREAL 
Coding Clinic: 2016. 01 
l!J C9462 Injection, delafloxacin, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 02 
l!J C9482 Injection, sotalol 
hydrochloride, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Drugs: SOTALOL 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 04 
ID C9488 Injection, conivaptan 
hydrochloride, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Drugs: VAPRISOL 
K2 ASC K 
KSO ASC E2 
K2 ASC K 
K2ASC K 
(9361-(9602 
FRESH FROZEN PLASMA-COVID-19 (C9507) 
l!J C9507 Plasma, high titer cov.id-19 convalescent, 
each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
PERCUTANEOUS TRANSCATHETER/TRANSLUMINAL 
CORONARY PROCEDURES (C9600-C9608) 
l!J C9600 Percutaneous transcatheter placement of 
drug eluting intracoronary stent(s), with 
coronary angioplasty when performed; 
single major coronary 
artery or branch 
JS ASC J1 tm1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 04; 2921, ™; 2023, 02 
Coronary angioplasty 
ID C9601 Percutaneous transcatheter placement of 
drug-eluting intracoronary stent(s), with 
coronary angioplasty when performed; each 
additional branch of a major coronary artery 
(list separately in addition to code 
for primary procedure) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute. 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 04; 2023, 02 
ID C9602 Percutaneous transluminal coronary 
atherectomy, with drug eluting intracoronary 
stent, with coronary angioplasty when 
performed; single major coronary artery
or branch 
• 
J 1 tm1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 04, 2021, 04; 2023, 02 
d' Male only 
-9- Female only 
8 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
tm) MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
175 
(9603 - (9727 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
0 
e 
e 
0 
176 
Build up of cholesterol partially blocking 
blood flow through the artery. 
Stent with balloon Inserted into partially 
blocked artery. 
Balloon inflated to expand stent. 
Balloon-removed from expanded stent. 
Stent angioplasty 
l!J C9603 Percutaneous transluminal coronary 
atherectomy, with drug-eluting intracoronary 
stent, with coronary angioplasty when 
performed; each additional branch of a major 
coronary artery (list separately in addition 
to code for primary procedure) 
N 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 04; 2023, 02 
l!J C9604 Percutaneous transluminal revascularization 
of or through coronary artery bypass 
graft (internal mammary, free arterial, 
venous), any combination of drug-eluting 
intracoronary stent, atherectomy and 
angioplasty, including distal protection 
when performed; single vessel 
J1 cm 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 04, 2023, 02 
l!J C9605 Percutaneous transluminal revascularization 
of or through coronary artery bypass graft 
(internal mammary, free arterial, venous), 
any combination of drug-eluting intracoronary 
stent, atherectomy and angioplasty, including 
distal protection when performed; each 
additional branch subtended by the bypass 
graft (list separately in addition to code for 
primary procedure) 
N 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 04; 2023, 02 
l!J C9606 Percutaneous transluminal revascularization 
of acute total/subtotal occlusion during 
acute myocardial infarction, coronary 
artery or coronary artery bypass graft, any 
combination of drug-eluting intracoronary 
stent, atherectomy and angioplasty, including 
aspiration thrombectomy when performed, 
single vessel 
c cm 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 04, 2019, 01; 
2023, 02 
l!J C9607 Percutaneous transluminal revascularization 
of chronic total occlusion, coronary artery, 
coronary artery branch, or coronary artery 
bypass graft, any combination of drug­
eluting intracoronary stent, atherectomy and 
angioplasty; single vessel 
J1 cm 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
, 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04, 2023, 02 
l!J C9608 Percutaneous lransluminal revascularizalion 
of chronic total occlusion, coronary artery, 
coronary artery branch, or coronary artery 
bypass graft, any combination of drug­
eluting intracoronary stent, atherectomy 
and angioplasty; each additional coronary 
artery, coronary artery branch, or bypass 
graft (list separately in addition to code for 
primary procedure) 
N 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
OTHER THERAPEUTIC SERVICES AND SUPPLIES 
(C9725-C9899) 
l!J C9725 Placement of endoreclal intracavitary 
applicator for high intensity 
brachytherapy 
G2 ASC T 
BETOS: P? A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
l!J C9726 Placement and removal (if performed) of 
applicator into breast for intraoperative 
radiation therapy, add-on to primary breast 
procedure 
N1  ASC N 
BETOS: P? A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Statute: 1833(T) 
  
Coding Clinic: 2006, 01; 2007, 02 
l!J C9727 Insertion of implants into the soft palate; 
minimum of three implants 
G2 ASC J1 
BETOS: P6D Minor procedures - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• New code 
A Revised code 
ml Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
I) Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
C 
l.J 
\ _ _ 
L 
C 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
DJ C9728 Placement of interstitial device(s) for 
radiation therapy/surgery guidance 
(e.g., fiducial markers, dosimeter), for other 
than the following sites (any approach): 
abdomen, pelvis, prostate, retroperitoneum, 
thorax, single or multiple 
J8 ASC S 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q2; 2018, Q2 
DJ C9733 Non-ophthalmic fluorescent vascular 
angiography 
Q2 
BETOS: 148 Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
DJ C9734 Focused ultrasound ablation/therapeutic 
intervention, other than uterine 
leiomyomata, with magnetic resonance (MR) 
guidance 
i J 1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q3 
DJ C9738 Adjunctive blue light cystoscopy 
with fluorescent imaging agent (list 
separately in addition to code for primary 
procedure) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 F Standard imaging - other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
DJ C9739 Cystourethroscopy, with insertion 
of transprostatic implant; 1 to 3 
implants 
JB d' ASC J1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Statute· 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q2 
DJ C9740 Cystourethroscopy, with insertion 
of transprostatic implant; 4 or more 
implants 
J8 d' ASC J1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q2 
DJ C9751 Bronchoscopy, rigid or flexible, 
transbronchial ablation of lesion(s) by 
microwave energy, including fluoroscopic 
guidance, when performed, with computed 
tomography acquisition(s) and 3-d rendering, 
computer-assisted, image-guided navigation, 
and endobronchial ultrasound (ebus) 
guided transtracheal and/or transbronchial 
sampling (eg, aspiration[s]/biopsy[ies]) 
and all mediastinal and/or hilar lymph 
node stations or structures and therapeutic 
intervention(s) 
T 
BETOS: P8F Endoscopy - bronchoscopy 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2019 Q1 
DJ C9756 lntraoperative near-infrared fluorescence 
lymphatic mapping of lymph node(s) 
(sentinel or tumor draining) with 
(9728 - (9760 
administration of indocyanine green (ICG) 
(List separately in addition to code for 
primary procedure) 
N 
BETOS: 148 Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3; 2021, Q1 
DJ C9757 Laminotomy (hemilaminectomy), with 
decompression of nerve root(s), including 
partial facetectomy, foraminotomy and 
excision of herniated intervertebral disc, and 
repair of annular defect with implantation 
of bone anchored annular closure device, 
including annular defect measurement, 
alignment and sizing assessment, and image 
guidance; 1 interspace, lumbar 
J8 ASC J1 
BETOS: P68 Minor procedures -
musculoskeletal 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2020. Q1 
DJ C9758 Blinded procedure for nyha class Ill/IV 
heart failure; transcatheter implantation of 
interatrial shunt or placebo control, including 
right heart catheterization, trans-esophageal 
echocardiography (tee )/intracardiac 
echocardiography (ice), and all imaging 
with or without guidance (e.g., ultrasound, 
fluoroscopy), performed in an approved 
investigational device exemption (IDE) 
 
T 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
DJ C9759 Transcatheter intraoperative blood vessel 
microinfusion(s) (e.g., intraluminal, vascular 
wall and/or perivascular) therapy, any vessel, 
including radiological supervision and 
interpretation, when performed 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
DJ C9760 Non-randomized, non-blinded procedure 
for NYHA class II, Ill, IV heart failure; 
transcatheter implantation of interatrial shunt, 
including right and left heart catheterization, 
transeptal puncture, trans-esophageal 
echocardiography (TEE)/intracardiac 
echocardiography (ICE), and all imaging 
with or without guidance (e.g., ultrasound, 
fluoroscopy), performed in an approved 
investigational device exemption (IDE) 
àá 
T 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
" Male only 
1 Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A· Y = APC Status indicator 
tlm MIPS code 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
l!ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
177 
(9761-(9774 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
178 
l:J C9761 Cystourethroscopy, with ureteroscopy 
and/or pyeloscopy, with lithotripsy, and 
ureteral catheterization for steerable 
vacuum aspiration of the kidney, collecting 
system, ureter, bladder, and urethra if 
applicable (must use a steerable ureteral 
catheter) 
G2 ASC J1 
BETOS: PSE Ambulatory procedures - other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4; 2021, Q2; 2023, 
Q1; 2023, Q1 
l:J C9762 Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging for 
morphology and function, quantification 
of segmental dysfunction; with strain 
imaging 
Z2 ASC Q3 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA:
other 
Statute· 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
l:J C9763 Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging for 
morphology and function, quantification 
of segmental dysfunction; with stress 
imaging 
Z2 ASC Q3 
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
l:J C9764 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, lower extremity artery(ies), 
except tibial/peroneal; with intravascular 
lithotripsy, includes angioplasty within the 
same vessel(s), when performed J8 ASC J1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
l:J C9765 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, lower extremity artery(ies). 
except tibial/peroneal; with intravascular 
lithotripsy, and transluminal stent 
placement(s), includes angioplasty within the 
same vessel(s), when performed J8 ASC J1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
l:J C9766 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, lower extremity artery(ies), 
except tibial/peroneal; with intravascular 
lithotripsy and atherectomy, includes 
angioplasty within the same vessel(s), 
when performed 
J8 ASC J1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
l:J C9767 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, lower extremity artery(ies), 
except tibial/peroneal; with intravascular 
lithotripsy and transluminal stent 
placement(s), and atherectomy, includes 
angioplasty within the same vessel(s), when 
performed 
J8 ASC J 1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
l:J C9768 Endoscopic ultrasound-guided direct 
measurement of hepatic portosystemic 
pressure gradient by any method 
(list separately in addition to code for 
primary procedure) 
N 
BETOS: P88 Endoscopy - upper 
gastrointestinal 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4; 2023, Q2 
l:J C9769 Cystourethroscopy, with insertion 
of temporary prostatic implanUstent , 
with fixation/anchor and incisional 
struts 
J8 r:/' ASC J 1 
BETOS: PSE Ambulatory procedures - other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4 
l:J C9772 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, tibial/peroneal artery(ies), with 
intravascular lithotripsy, includes angioplasty 
within the same vessel (s), 
when performed 
J8 ASC J 1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
l:J C9773 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, tibial/peroneal artery(ies); with 
intravascular lithotripsy, and transluminal 
stent placement(s), includes angioplasty 
within the same vessel(s), 
when performed 
J8 ASC J1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
l:J C9774 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, tibial/peroneal artery(ies); with 
intravascular lithotripsy and atherectomy, 
includes angioplasty within the same vessel 
(s), when performed 
J8 ASC J1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
• Newcode
.& Revised code 
II Carrier judgment 
ID Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
CJ 
L 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
l!J C9775 Revascularization, endovascular, open or 
percutaneous, tibial/peroneal artery(ies); 
with intravascular lithotripsy and transluminal 
stent placement(s), and atherectomy, 
includes angioplasty within the same vessel 
(s), when performed 
J8 ASC J1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01 
l!J C9776 lntraoperative near-infrared fluorescence 
imaging of major extra-hepatic bile duct(s) 
(e.g., cystic duct, common bile duct and 
common hepatic duct) with intravenous 
administration of indocyanine green (icg) 
(list separately in addition to code for 
primary procedure) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 02; 2022, 01 
l!J C9777 Esophageal mucosal integrity 
testing by electrical impedance, 
transoral, includes esophagoscopy or 
esophagogastroduodenoscopy 
JS ASC J1 
BETOS: P8B Endoscopy - upper 
gastrointestinal 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 02 
l!J C9778 Colpopexy, vaginal; minimally 
invasive extra-peritoneal approach 
(sacrospinous) 
JSÈ ASC J1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03 
l!J C9779 Endoscopic submucosal dissection (esd), 
including endoscopy or colonoscopy, 
mucosa! closure, when performed 
J1 
BETOS: P8D Endoscopy - colonoscopy 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04, 2023, 03 
l!J C9780 Insertion of central venous catheter through 
central venous occlusion via inferior and 
superior approaches (e.g., inside-out 
technique), including imaging guidance 
s 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04 
l!J C9781 Arthroscopy, shoulder, surgical; with 
implantation of subacromial spacer 
(e.g., balloon), includes debridement 
(e.g., limited or extensive), subacromial 
decompression, acromioplasty, 
and biceps tenodesis 
when performed 
JS ASC J1 
BETOS: P8A Endoscopy - arthroscopy 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
(9775 - (9786 
l!J C9782 Blinded procedure for new york heart 
association (nyha) class ii or iii heart 
failure, or canadian cardiovascular society 
(ccs) class iii or iv chronic refractory 
angina; transcatheter intramyocardial 
transplantation of autologous bone marrow 
cells (e.g., mononuclear) or placebo control, 
autologous bone marrow harvesting and 
preparation for transplantation, left heart 
catheterization including ventriculography, 
all laboratory services, and all imaging with 
or without guidance (e.g., transthoracic 
echocardiography, ultrasound, fluoroscopy), 
performed in an approved investigational 
device exemption (ide) study 
T 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
l!J C9783 Blinded procedure for transcatheter 
implantation of coronary sinus reduction 
device or placebo control, including vascular 
access and closure, right heart oatherization, 
venous and coronary sinus angiography, 
imaging guidance and supervision and 
interpretation when performed in an 
approved investigational device exemption 
(ide) study 
J 1 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
• l!J C9784 Gastric restrictive procedure,
endoscopic sleeve gastroplasty, with 
esophagogastroduodenoscopy and 
lntraluminal tube insertion, if performed, 
including all system and tissue anchoring 
components 
J1 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
• l!J C9785 Endoscopic outlet reduction, gastric pouch
application, with endoscopy and intraluminal 
tube insertion, if performed, including all 
system and tissue anchoring components J1 
BETOS: P1G Major procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
• l!J C9786 Echocardiography image post processing
for computer aided detection of heart failure 
with preserved ejection fraction, including 
interpretation and report 
S 
BETOS: I3C Echography/ultrasonography 
- heart
Statute: 1833(t)
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03
a" Male only 
!f Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
l!ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
IZl!D MIPS code 
CPT" 1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
179 
C9787 - C9899 
• 6J C9787 Gastric electrophysiology mapping with
simultaneous patient symptom profiling 
S 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
• 6J C9789 Instillation of anti-neoplastic pharmacologic/
biologic agent into renal pelvis, any 
method, including all imaging guidance, 
including volumetric measurement if 
performed 
G2 ASC T 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures • other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
• 6J C9790 Histotripsy (ie, non-thermal ablation via
acoustic energy delivery) of malignant renal 
tissue, including image guidance 
G2 ASC S 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
• 6J C9791 Magnetic resonance imaging with inhaled
hyperpolarized xenon-129 contrast 
agent, chest, including preparation and 
administration of agent 
o T
BETOS: I2D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA: 
other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
• l!J C9792 Blinded or nonblinded procedure for 
symptomatic new york heart association (nyha) 
class ii, iii, iva heart failure; transcatheter 
implantation of left atrial to coronary sinus 
shunt using jugular vein access, including all 
imaging necessary to intra procedurally map 
the coronary sinus for optimal shunt placement 
(e.g., tee or ice ultrasound, fluoroscopy), 
performed under general anesthesia in an 
approved investigational device exemption 
(ide) study) 
S 
BETOS: P2F Major procedure, 
cardiovascular-Other 
Statute: 1833(t) 
• 6J C9793 3d predictive model generation for pre­
planning of a cardiac procedure, using 
data from cardiac computed tomographic 
angiography with report 
BETOS: I4B Imaging/procedure - other 
Statute: 1833(T) 
• 6J C9794 Therapeutic radiology simulation-aided
field setting; complex, including acquisition 
of pet and ct imaging data required for 
radiopharmaceutical-directed radiation 
therapy treatment planning (i.e., modeling) 
BETOS: P7 A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Statute: 1833(T) 
Outpatient PPS (C1052-C9899) 
• 6J C9795 Stereotactic body radiation therapy,
treatment delivery, per fraction to 1 or more 
lesions, including image guidance and 
real-time positron emissions-based delivery 
adjustments to 1 or more lesions, entire 
course not to exceed 5 fractions 
BETOS: P7 A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Statute: 1833(T) 
6J C9898 Radiolabeled product provided during a 
hospital inpatient stay 
N 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: NA 
6J C9899 Implanted prosthetic device, payable only 
for inpatients who do not have inpatient 
coverage 
A 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Statute: 1833(t) 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
• Newcode
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
180 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
'-
L 
Durable Medical Equipment (E0100-E8002) 
DURABLE MEDICAL EQUIPMENT (E0100-E8002) 
WALKING AIDS AND ATTACHMENTS (E0100-E0159) 
l!J E0100 Cane, includes canes of all materials, 
adjustable or fixed, with tip 
EDY tlm 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Coding Clinic: 2009 Q2 
l!J E0105 Cane, quad or three prong, includes 
canes of all materials, adjustable or 
fixed, with tips 
EDY lilm 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0110 Crutches, forearm, includes crutches of 
various materials, adjustable or fixed, 
pair, complete with tips and handgrips ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0111 Crutch forearm, includes crutches of 
various materials, adjustable or fixed, 
each, with tip and handgrips 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0112 Crutches underarm, wood, adjustable 
or fixed, pair, with pads, tips and 
handgrips 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0113 Crutch underarm, wood, adjustable or 
fixed, each, with pad, tip and handgrip ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0114 Crutches underarm, other than wood, 
adjustable or fixed, pair, with pads, 
tips and handgrips 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2 
l!J E0116 Crutch, underarm, other than wood, 
adjustable or fixed, with pad, tip, handgrip, 
with or without shock absorber, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0117 Crutch, underarm, articulating, spring 
assisted, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0118 Crutch substitute, lower leg platform, 
with or without wheels, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
l!J E0130 Walker, rigid (pickup), adjustable or 
fixed height 
ED Y 1ml 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
E0100-E0144 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
l!J E0135 Walker, folding (pickup), adjustable 
or fixed height 
ED Y tlm 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
l!J E0140 Walker, with trunk support, adjustable 
or fixed height, any type 
ED Y tlm 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
l!J E0141 Walker, rigid, wheeled, adjustable 
or fixed height 
ED Y tlm 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
l!J E0143 Walker, folding, wheeled, adjustable 
or fixed height 
ED Y tlm 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
, 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
Walker 
l!J E0144 Walker, enclosed, four sided framed, rigid or 
folding, wheeled with posterior seat EDY 1ml 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
cl' Male only 
¥ Female only 
0 Age 
Al-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
tlm MIPS code 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
181 
E0147-E0175 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 00-E8002) 
182 
l!J E0147 Walker, heavy duty, multiple braking 
system, variable wheel resistance EDY mm 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
El E0148 Walker, heavy duty, without wheels, 
rigid or folding, any type, each 
EDY mm 
BETOS: D1E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
El E0149 Walker, heavy duty, wheeled, rigid 
or folding, any type 
ED Y mm 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
El E0153 Platform attachment, forearm crutch, 
each 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
El E0154 Platform attachment, walker, each 
EDY 
BETOS: D1E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14; 100-4, 
Chapter-36, 50.15 
El E0155 Wheel attachment, rigid pick-up walker, 
per pair 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
El E0156 Seat attachment, walker 
EDY 
BETOS: D1E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU. RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14; 100-4, 
Chapter-36, 50.15 
El E0157 Crutch attachment, walker, each 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15; 100-4, 
Chapter-36, 50.14 
El E0158 Leg extensions for walker, per set of 
four(4) 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14; 100-4, 
Chapter-36, 50.15 
El E0159 Brake attachment for wheeled walker, 
replacement, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.15 
SITZ BATH/EQUIPMENT (E0160-E0162) 
l!J E0160 Sitz type bath or equipment, portable, 
used with or without commode 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0161 Sitz type bath or equipment, portable, 
used with or without commode, 
with faucet attachmenUs 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 02 
l!J E0162 Sitz bath chair 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
COMMODE CHAIR AND SUPPLIES (E0163-E0175) 
l!J E0163 Commode chair, mobile or stationary, 
with fixed arms 
ED Y mm 
BETOS: D1E 
OtherDME 
, 
DME Modifier: NU, RR. UE 
l!J E0165 Commode chair, mobile or stationary, 
with detachable arms 
ED Y r.:;m 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0167 Pail or pan for use with commode 
chair, replacement only 
ED Y r.:;m 
BETOS: D1E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
El E0168 Commode chair, extra wide and/or 
heavy duty, stationary or mobile, 
with or without arms, any type, 
each 
EDYtlm 
BETOS: D1E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
El E0170 Commode chair with integrated seat 
lift mechanism, electric, any type 
ED Y r.:;m 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
El E0171 Commode chair with integrated 
seat lift mechanism, non-electric, 
any type 
ED Y r.:;m 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
EJ E0172 Seat lift mechanism placed over or on 
top of toilet, any type 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861SSA 
El E0175 Foot rest, for use with commode chair, 
E1 
each 
EDY 
BETOS: D1E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU, RR. UE 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
El Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association, All rights reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
PRESSURE MATTRESSES, PADS, AND OTHER SUPPLIES 
(E0181-E0199) 
l!J E0181 Powered pressure reducing mattress 
overlay/pad, alternating, with pump, 
includes heavy duty 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0182 Pump for alternating pressure pad, for 
replacement only 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l'i E0183 Powered pressure reducing underlay/ 
pad, alternating, with pump, includes 
heavy duty 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0184 Dry pressure mattress 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
BIIY 
l:J- ·E0185 Gel or gel-like pressure pad for mattress, 
standard mattress length and width 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0186 Air pressure mattress 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0187 Water pressure mattress 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0188 Synthetic sheepskin pad 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0189 Lambswool sheepskin pad, any size 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0190 Positioning cushion/pillow/wedge, any 
shape or size, includes all components 
and accessories 
E1 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l'i E0191 Heel or elbow protector, each 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l'i E0193 Powered air flotation bed (low air loss 
therapy) 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier. RR 
l!J E0194 Air fluidized bed 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
E0181 - E0221 
l!J E0196 Gel pressure mattress 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0197 Air pressure pad for mattress, standard 
mattress length and width 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0198 Water pressure pad for mattress, 
standard mattress length and width 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· RR 
l!J E0199 Dry pressure pad for mattress, 
standard mattress length and width 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
HEAT, COLD, AND LIGHT THERAPIES (E0200-E0239), 
SEE ALSO ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT THERAPY SYSTEMS 
(E0691-E0694) 
l!J E0200 Heat lamp, without stand (table model), 
includes bulb, or infrared element 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l'i E0202 Phototherapy (bilirubin) light with 
photometer 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0203 Therapeutic lightbox, minimum 
10, 000 lux, table top model 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E0205 Heat lamp, with stand, includes bulb, 
or infrared element 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0210 Electric heat pad, standard 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0215 Electric heat pad, moist 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU, RR, UE 
BIIY 
BIIY 
l!J E0217 Water circulating heat pad with pump BIi Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0218 Fluid circulating cold pad with pump, 
any type 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
l'i E0221 Infrared heating pad system 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-5, 20.4 
y 
y 
cl' Male only 
Ç Female only 
fl Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Al. -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
BIi Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A• Y = APC Status indicator 
la MIPS code 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
183 
E0225 - E0270 
m E0225 Hydrocollator unit, includes pads 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
llmlY 
m E0231 Non-contact wound warming device 
(temperature control unit, AC adapter and 
power cord) for use with warming card 
and wound cover 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
m E0232 Warming card for use with the non contact 
wound warming device and non contact 
wound warming wound cover 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
m E0235 Paraffin bath unit, portable (see medical 
supply code A4265 for paraffin) 
llml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0236 Pump for water circulating pad 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0239 Hydrocollator unit, portable 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier. NU, RR, UE 
BATHING SUPPLIES (E0240-E0249) 
llmlY 
llmlY 
m E0240 Bath/shower chair, with or without wheels, 
any size 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m E0241 Bath tub wall rail, each 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E1 
m E0242 Bath tub rail, floor base 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li9 E0243 Toilet rail, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m E0244 Raised toilet seat 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m E0245 Tub stool or bench 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E0246 Transfer tub rail attachment 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m E0247 Transfer bench for tub or toilet with or 
without commode opening 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
m E0248 Transfer bench, heavy duty, for tub or toilet 
with or without commode opening 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m E0249 Pad for water circulating heat unit, for 
replacement only 
llml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
HOSPITAL BEDS AND ASSOCIATED SUPPLIES (E0250-E0373) 
m E0250 Hospital bed, fixed height, with any 
type side rails, with mattress 
llml Y tlm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0251 Hospital bed, fixed height, with any 
type side rails, without mattress 
llml Y tlm 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier. RR 
m E0255 Hospital bed, variable height, hi-lo, 
' 
with any type side rails, with 
mattress 
- y cm
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0256 Hospital bed, variable height, hi-lo, 
with any type side rails, without 
mattress 
llml Y cm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0260 Hospital bed, semi-electric (head and 
foot adjustment), with any type side 
rails, with mattress 
llml Y tlm 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0261 Hospital bed, semi-electric (head and 
foot adjustment), with any type side 
rails, without mattress 
llml Y cm 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0265 Hospital bed, total electric (head, foot 
and height adjustments), with any 
type side rails, with mattress 
llml Y cm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0266 Hospital bed, total electric (head, foot 
and height adjustments), with any 
type side rails, without mattress 
llml Y cm 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0270 Hospital bed, institutional type includes: 
oscillating, circulating and stryker frame, 
with mattress 
E 1 cm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
II Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
184 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
L 
Durable Medical Equipment (E0100-E8002) 
DJ E0271 Mattress, innerspring 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
DJ E0272 Mattress, foam rubber 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: NU, RR. UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
EDY 
ED y 
li!il E0273 Bed board 
E 1 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li!il E0274 Over-bed table 
E1 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DJ E0275 Bed pan, standard, metal or plastic 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
DJ E0276 Bed pan, fracture, metal or plastic 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
DJ E0277 Powered pressure-reducing air 
mattress 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier RR 
ED y 
ED y 
II E0280 Bed cradle, any type 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: NU, RR. UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
DJ E0290 Hospital bed, fixed height, without 
side rails, with mattress 
ED Y cm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
OME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0291 Hospital bed, fixed height, without 
side rails, without mattress 
ED Y cm 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
OME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0292 Hospital bed, variable height, hi-lo, 
without side rails, with mattress 
EDY cm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
OME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0293 Hospital bed, variable height, hi-lo, 
without side rails, without mattress llID Y cm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0294 Hospital bed, semi-electric (head and foot 
adjustment), without side rails, 
with mattress 
llID Y ID 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
E0271 - E0315 
DJ E0295 Hospital bed, semi-electric (head and 
foot adjustment), without side rails, 
without mattress 
llID YID 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0296 Hospital bed, total electric (head, foot 
and height adjustments). without 
side rails, with mattress 
llID Y cm 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0297 Hospital bed, total electric (head, foot 
and height adjustments), without 
side rails, without mattress 
ED Y cm 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
II E0300 Pediatric crib, hospital grade, fully enclosed, 
with or without top enclosure 
ED O Y 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0301 Hospital bed, heavy duty, extra 'hide, with 
weight capacity greater than 350 pounds, but 
less than or equal to 600 pounds, with any 
type side rails, without mattress 
llID Y ID 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0302 Hospital bed, extra heavy duty, extra wide, 
with weight capacity greater than 600 
pounds, with any type side rails, 
without mattress 
llID YID 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0303 Hospital bed, heavy duty, extra wide, with 
weight capacity greater than 350 pounds, 
but less than or equal to 600 pounds, with 
any type side rails, with mattress 
llID Y cm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0304 Hospital bed, extra heavy duty, extra wide, 
with weight capacity greater than 600 
pounds, with any type side rails, 
with mattress 
llID Y cm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0305 Bed side rails, half length 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0310 Bed side rails, full length 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: NU, RR. UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
-
EDY 
li!il E0315 Bed accessory: board, table, or support 
device, any type 
E1 
BETOS: D18 Hospital beds 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Male only 
!j! Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A• Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
EllJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
cm MIPS code 
CPT-1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
185 
E0316 - E0439 
Durable Medical Equipment (EO1 OO-E8002) 
186 
II E0316 Safety enclosure frame/canopy for use 
with hospital bed, any type 
m Y 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
m E0325 Urinal; male, jug-type, any material <I' El1I Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E0326 Urinal; female, jug-type, any 
material 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
II E0328 Hospital bed, pediatric, manual, 360 degree 
side enclosures, top of headboard, footboard 
and side rails up to 24 inches above the 
spring, includes mattress 
0 Y 
BETOS: D18 Hospital beds 
II E0329 Hospital bed, pediatric, electric or semi­
electric, 360 degree side enclosures, top 
of headboard, footboard and side rails up 
to 24 inches above the spring, includes 
mattress 
0 Y 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
II E0350 Control unit for electronic bowel irrigation/ 
evacuation system 
E 1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Other carrier priced 
II E0352 Disposable pack (water reservoir bag, 
speculum, valving mechanism and collection 
bag/box) for use with the electronic bowel 
irrigation/evacuation system 
E1 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Other carrier priced 
II E0370 Air pressure elevator for heel 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E1 
II E0371 Nonpowered advanced pressure reducing 
overlay for mattress, standard mattress 
length and width 
m Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR
II E0372 Powered air overlay for mattress, 
standard mattress length and width 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR
II E0373 Nonpowered advanced pressure 
reducing mattress 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR
-
mv 
OXYGEN DELIVERY SYSTEMS AND RELATED SUPPLIES 
(E0424-E0493) 
m E0424 Stationary compressed gaseous oxygen 
system, rental; includes container, contents, 
regulator, flowmeter, humidifier, nebulizer, 
m E0425 
m E0430 
m E0431 
II E0433 
cannula or mask, and tubing 
m Y tlm 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier: QB, QF, RR 
Stationary compressed gas system, 
purchase; includes regulator, flowmeter, 
humidifier, nebulizer, cannula or mask, 
and tubing 
E1 tlm 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B
Portable gaseous oxygen system, purchase; 
includes regulator, flowmeter, humidifier, 
cannula or mask, and tubing 
E1 tlm 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B
Portable gaseous oxygen system, rental; 
includes portable container, regulator,' 
flowmeter, humidifier, cannula or mask, 
and tubing 
m Y tlm 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier: QB, QF, RR
Portable liquid oxygen system, rental; home 
liquefier used to fill portable liquid oxygen 
containers, includes portable containers, 
regulator, flowmeter, humidifier, cannula 
or mask and tubing, with or without supply 
reservoir and contents gauge 
m Y tlm 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier: QB, QF, RR
m E0434 Portable liquid oxygen system, rental; 
includes portable container, supply reservoir, 
humidifier, flowmeter, refill adaptor, 
contents gauge, cannula or mask, 
and tubing 
m Y tlm 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier: QB, QF, RR
m E0435 Portable liquid oxygen system, purchase; 
includes portable container, supply 
reservoir, flowmeter, humidifier, contents 
gauge, cannula or mask, tubing and 
refill adaptor 
E 1 tlm 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m E0439 Stationary liquid oxygen system, rental; 
includes container, contents, regulator, 
flowmeter, humidifier, nebulizer, cannula 
or mask, & tubing 
lml Y r;:m 
BETOS: D 1 C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier: QB, QF, RR 
• Newcode
.& Revised code 
II Carrier judgment 
liJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
L 
C 
Durable Medical Equipment (E0100-E8002) 
Ii) E0440 Stationary liquid oxygen system, purchase; 
includes use of reservoir, contents indicator, 
regulator, flowmeter, humidifier, nebulizer, 
cannula or mask, and tubing 
E1 cm 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B
Ii) E0441 Stationary oxygen contents, gaseous, 
1 month's supply = 1 unit 
BIi Y cm 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
Ii) E0442 Stationary oxygen contents, liquid, 
1 month's supply = 1 unit 
BIi Y cm 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
DJ E0443 Portable oxygen contents, gaseous, 
1 month's supply = 1 unit 
BIi Y cm 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
Ii) E0444 Portable oxygen contents, liquid, 
1 month's supply = 1 unit 
BIi Y cm 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
1:1 E0445 Oximeter device for measuring blood 
oxygen levels noninvasively 
N 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B
Pulse oximeter 
1:1 E0446 Topical oxygen delivery system, not 
otherwise specified, includes all supplies 
and accessories 
A 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DJ E0447 Portable oxygen contents, liquid, 1 month's 
supply = 1 unit, prescribed amount at rest 
or nighttime exceeds 4 liters per minute 
(1pm) 
B!Jy 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
DJ E0455 Oxygen tent, excluding croup or pediatric 
tents 
0 Y 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
D E0457 Chest shell (cuirass) 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B
E1 
E0440-E0480 
0 E0459 Chest wrap 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 E0462 Rocking bed with or without side 
rails 
B!Jycm 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
Ii) E0465 Home ventilator, any type, used with 
invasive interface, (e.g., tracheostomy 
¯° 
BIJYcm 
BETOS: D 1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0466 Home ventilator, any type, used with 
non-invasive interface, (e.g., mask, 
chest shell) 
BIi Y cm 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0467 Home ventilator, multi-function respiratory 
device, also performs any or all of the 
additional functions of oxygen concentration, 
drug nebulization, aspiration, anacough 
stimulation, includes all accessories, 
components and supplies for all 
functions 
BIJ y 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0470 Respiratory assist device, bi-level pressure 
capability, without backup rate feature, 
used with noninvasive interface, e.g., 
nasal or facial mask (intermittent assist 
device with continuous positive airway 
pressure device) 
BIJ Y cm 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0471 Respiratory assist device, bi-level pressure 
capability, with back-up rate feature, used 
with noninvasive interface, e.g., nasal or 
facial mask (intermittent assist 
device with continuous positive 
airway pressure device) 
BIi Y cm 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0472 Respiratory assist device, bi-level pressure 
capability, with backup rate feature, used 
with invasive interface, e.g., tracheostomy 
tube (intermittent assist device with 
continuous positive airway pressure 
device) 
BIi Y cm 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0480 Percussor, electric or pneumatic, 
home model 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
BIJY 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Al. -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
BIi Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
cm MIPS code
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. A/1 r,ghts reserved. 
187 
E0481-E0562 
el E0481 Intrapulmonary percussive ventilation system 
and related accessories 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
S E0482 Cough stimulating device, alternating 
positive and negative airway pressure mlJ Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
S E0483 High frequency chest wall oscillation system, 
with full anterior and/or posterior thoracic 
region receiving simultaneous external 
oscillation, includes all accessories and 
supplies, each 
mlJ Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q4 
S E0484 Oscillatory positive expiratory pressure 
device, non-electric, any type, each 
mlJ Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
S E0485 Oral device/appliance used to reduce upper 
airway collapsibility, adjustable or non­
adjustable, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
mlJ Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
S E0486 Oral device/appliance used to reduce upper 
airway collapsibility, adjustable or non­
adjustable, custom fabricated, includes 
fitting and adjustment 
mlJ Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0487 Spirometer, electronic, includes all 
accessories 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
• S E0490 Power source and control electronics unit
for oral device/appliance for neuromuscular 
electrical stimulation of the tongue muscle, 
N 
controlled by hardware remote 
mlJ 0 E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
• S E0491 Oral device/appliance for neuromuscular
electrical stimulation of the tongue muscle, 
used in conjunction with the power source 
and control electronics unit, controlled by 
hardware remote, 90-day supply 
ED 0 E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
• EJ E0492 Power source and control electronics unit
for oral device/appliance for neuromuscular 
electrical stimulation of the tongue muscle, 
controlled by phone application 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 00-E8002) 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Statute: 1861 (n) 
• EJ E0493 Oral device/appliance for neuromuscular
electrical stimulation of the tongue muscle, 
used in conjunction with the power source 
and control electronics unit, controlled by 
phone application, 90-day supply 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Statute: 1861(n) 
INTERMITTENT POSITIVE PRESSURE BREATHING DEVICES 
(E0S00), SEE ALSO BREATHING AIDS (A7000-A7049); OTHER 
BREATHING AIDS (E0605, E0606); ASSISTED BREATHING 
SUPPLIES (S8096-S8210) 
l!J E0S00 IPPB machine, all types, with built-in 
nebulization; manual or automatic valves; 
internal or external power source 
mlJ Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
ELECTRONIC POSITIONAL OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA 
TREATMENT (E0530) 
• S E0530 Electronic positional obstructive sleep
apnea treatment, with sensor, includes all 
components and accessories, any type 
BETOS: D1 E qther DME 
HUMIDIFIERS AND NEBULIZERS WITH RELATED EQUIPMENT 
(E0550-E0601) 
l!J E0SS0 Humidifier, durable for extensive 
supplemental humidification during IPPB 
treatments or oxygen delivery 
mlJ Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0555 Humidifier, durable, glass or autoclavable 
plastic bottle type, for use with regulator or 
Wm 
Y 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
l!J E0560 Humidifier, durable for supplemental 
humidification during IPPB treatment or 
oxygen delivery 
mlJ Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
S E0561 Humidifier, non-heated, used with 
positive airway pressure device 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
S E0562 Humidifier, heated, used with positive 
airway pressure device 
mlJ Y ¿ 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-36, 50.14 
• Newcode
.A. Revised code 
S Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
(a Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
188 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
B E0565 Compressor, air power source for equipment 
which is not self- contained or cylinder 
driven 
l!mlY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0570 Nebulizer, with compressor 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
llmlY 
B E0572 Aerosol compressor, adjustable pressure, 
light duty for intermittent use 
l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
B E0574 Ultrasonic/electronic aerosol generator 
with small volume nebulizer 
l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0575 Nebulizer, ultrasonic, large volume 
l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
B E0580 Nebulizer, durable, glass or autoclavable 
plastic, bottle type, for use with regulator 
or flowmeter 
l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0585 Nebulizer, with compressor and heater l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Nebulizer 
l!J E0600 Respiratory suction pump, home model, 
portable or stationary, electric 
l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0601 Continuous positive airway pressure 
(CPAP) device 
l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
E0565- E0615 
BREAST PUMPS (E0602-E0604) 
B E0602 Breast pump, manual, any type 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier. NU, RR, UE 
-'i-l!mlOY 
B E0603 Breast pump, electric (AC and/or DC), 
any type 
»ON 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
B E0604 Breast pump, hospital grade, electric 
(AC and / or DC), any type 
ft. 0 A 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
OTHER BREATHING AIDS (E0605, E0606), SEE ALSO 
BREATHING AIDS (A7000-A7049); INTERMITTENT POSITIVE 
PRESSURE BREATHING DEVICES (E0500); ASSISTED 
BREATHING SUPPLIES (S8096-S8210) 
l!J E0605 Vaporizer, room type 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0606 Postural drainage board 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
MONITORING EQUIPMENT (E0607-E0620) 
l!J E0607 Home blood glucose monitor 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
•• • 
Glucose monitor 
' 
l!J E0610 Pacemaker monitor, self-contained, 
(checks battery depletion, includes 
BIIY 
BIIY 
BIIY 
audible and visible ch
4eck systems) 
Bii Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0615 Pacemaker monitor, self contained, checks 
battery depletion and other pacemaker 
components, includes digital/visible 
check systems 
BIi Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
cl' Male only 
ft. Female only 
O Age 
Al-23 = A5C. Payment indicator 
A -Y = AP C Status indicator 
!mi) MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
lilml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
189 
E0616-E0655 
II E0616 Implantable cardiac event recorder with 
memory, activator and programmer 
N 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
II E0617 External defibrillator with integrated 
electrocardiogram analysis 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
□ME Modifier: KF, RR
II E0618 Apnea monitor, without recording 
feature 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: RR 
ay 
II E0619 Apnea monitor, with recording feature a Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: RR 
II E0620 Skin piercing device for collection of 
capillary blood, laser, each 
a Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier· RR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
PATIENT LIFTS AND SUPPORT SYSTEMS (E0621-E0642) 
DJ E0621 Sling or seat, patient lift, canvas or 
nylon 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E0625 Patient lift, bathroom or toilet, not 
otherwise classified 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DJ E0627 Seat lift mechanism, electric, any 
type 
ETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
DJ E0629 Seat lift mechanism, non-electric, 
any type 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
DJ E0630 Patient lift, hydraulic or mechanical, 
includes any seat, sling, strap(s) or 
pad(s) 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E0635 Patient lift, electric with seat or sling 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier RR 
II E0636 Multipositional patient support system, 
with integrated lift, patient accessible 
G]Jy 
E1 
av 
av 
av 
av 
controls 
av 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Durable Medical Equipment (E0100-E8002) 
m E0637 Combination sit to stand frame/table system, 
any size including pediatric, with seat lift 
feature, with or without wheels 
G E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m E0638 Standing frame/table system, one position 
(e.g., upright, supine or prone stander), 
any size including pediatric, with or 
without wheels 
O E1 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
II E0639 Patient lift, moveable from room to room with 
disassembly and reassembly, includes 
all components/accessories 
a E1 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: RR 
II E0640 Patient lift, fixed system, includes all 
components/accessories 
a E1 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee ' 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E0641 Standing frame/table system, multi-position 
(e.g., 3-way stander), any size including 
pediatric, with or without wheels 
O E 1 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m E0642 Standing frame/table system, mobile 
(dynamic stander), any size including 
pediatric 
O E1 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PNEUMATIC COMPRESSORS AND APPLIANCES 
(E0650-E0682) 
DJ E0650 Pneumatic compressor, non-segmental 
home model 
a Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
DJ E0651 Pneumatic compressor, segmental 
home model without calibrated gradient 
pressure 
' 
a V 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
DJ E0652 Pneumatic compressor, segmental 
home model with calibrated gfadient 
pressure 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier. NU, RR, UE 
av 
DJ E0655 Non-segmental pneumatic appliance for use 
with pneumatic compressor, half arm 
GlJ Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
II Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
190 
CPT-is a registered trademark af the American Medical Assaciat,on. All rights reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 00-E8002) 
m E0656 Segmental pneumatic appliance for use 
with pneumatic compressor, trunk 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
m E0657 Segmental pneumatic appliance for use 
with pneumatic compressor, chest 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
m E0660 Non-segmental pneumatic appliance 
for use with pneumatic compressor, 
full leg 
EmlY 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E0665 Non-segmental pneumatic appliance 
for use with pneumatic compressor, 
full arm 
EmlY 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier. NU, RR, UE 
m_ .E0666 Non-segmental pneumatic appliance for use 
with pneumatic compressor, half leg 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E0667 Segmental pneumatic appliance for use 
with pneumatic compressor, full leg 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier· NU, RR, UE 
m E0668 Segmental pneumatic appliance for use 
with pneumatic compressor, full arm 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E0669 Segmental pneumatic appliance for use 
with pneumatic compressor, half leg 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E0670 Segmental pneumatic appliance for use 
with pneumatic compressor, integrated, 
2 full legs and trunk 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E0671 Segmental gradient pressure pneumatic 
appliance, full leg 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E0672 Segmental gradient pressure pneumatic 
appliance, full arm 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier NU, RR, UE 
m E0673 Segmental gradient pressure pneumatic 
appliance, half leg 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
E0656 - E0694 
Bl E0675 Pneumatic compression device, high 
pressure, rapid inflation/deflation cycle, 
for arterial insufficiency (unilateral or 
bilateral system) 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Bl E0676 Intermittent limb compression device 
(includes all accessories), not otherwise 
specified 
Y 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Bl E0677 Non-pneumatic sequential compression
garment, trunk 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
• Bl E0678 Non-pneumatic sequential compression
garment, full leg 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
• Bl E0679 Non-pneumatic sequential compssion
garment, half leg 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
• Bl E0680 Non-pneumatic compression controller with
sequential calibrated gradient pressure 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
• Bl E0681 Non-pneumatic compression controller
without calibrated gradient pressure 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
• Bl E0682 Non-pneumatic sequential compression
garment, full arm 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT THERAPY SYSTEMS (E0691-E0694), SEE 
ALSO HEAT, COLD, AND LIGHT THERAPIES (E0200-E0239) 
Bl E0691 Ultraviolet light therapy system, includes 
bulbs/lamps, timer and eye protection; 
treatment area 2 square feet or less 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Bl E0692 Ultraviolet light therapy system panel, 
includes bulbs/lamps, timer and eye 
protection, 4 foot panel 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier· NU, RR, UE 
Bl E0693 Ultraviolet light therapy system panel, 
includes bulbs/lamps, timer and eye 
protection, 6 foot panel -
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Bl E0694 Ultraviolet multidirectional light therapy 
system in 6 foot cabinet, includes bulbs/ 
lamps, timer and eye protection 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
d' Maleonly 
/ Female only 
Q Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Proc edur e 
Al. - 23 = ASC Paym ent ind icator 
Em! Paid under the DME fee schedu le 
A -Y = AP C Status indicator 
IIJll1 MIPScode 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
191 
E0700 - E0765 
SAFETY DEVICES (E0700-E0711) 
II E0700 Safety equipment, device or accessory, 
any type 
E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E0705 Transfer device, any type, each 
li1lll B 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
II E0710 Restraints, any type (body, chest, wrist or 
ankle) 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Other carrier priced 
• II E0711 Upper extremity medical tubing/lines
enclosure or covering device, 
restricts elbow range of motion 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
STIMULATION DEVICES (E0720-E0770) 
l!J E0720 Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation 
(TENS) device, two lead, localized 
stimulation 
li1lll Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
l!J E0730 Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation 
(TENS) device, four or more leads, for 
multiple nerve stimulation 
li1lll y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
1!J E0731 Form fitting conductive garment for delivery 
of TENS or NMES (with conductive fibers 
separated from the patient's skin by 
layers of fabric) 
li1lll y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
• II E0732 Cranial electrotherapy stimulation (ces)
system, any type 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
• II E0733 Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator
for electrical stimulation of the trigeminal 
nerve 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
• II E0734 External upper limb tremor stimulator of the
0 
peripheral nerves of the wrist 
0 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
• II E0735 Non-invasive vagus nerve stimulator
0 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
1!J E0740 Non-implanted pelvic floor electrical 
stimulator, complete system 
li1lll y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Durable Medical Equipment (E0100-E8002) 
II E0744 Neuromuscular stimulator for scoliosis li1lll y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0745 Neuromuscular stimulator, electronic 
shock unit 
li1lll y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0746 Electromyography (EMG), biofeedback 
device 
N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Reasonable charge 
l!J E0747 Osteogenesis stimulator, electrical, 
non-invasive, other than spinal 
applications 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF, NU, RR, UE 
1!J E0748 Osteogenesis stimulator, electrical, 
non-invasive, spinal applications 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF, NU, RR, UE 
1!J E0749 Osteogenesis stimulator, electrical, 
li1lll y 
li1lll y 
surgically implanted 
li1lll N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF, RR 
II E0755 Electronic salivary reflex stimulator 
(intra-oral/non-invasive) 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Reasonable charge 
II E0760 Osteogenesis stimulator, low intensity 
ultrasound, non-invasive 
li1lll y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF, NU, RR, UE 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 110.5 
1!J E0761 Non-thermal pulsed high frequency 
radiowaves, high peak power 
electromagnetic energy treatment device E1 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E0762 Transcutaneous electrical joint stimulation 
device system, includes all accessories li1lll B 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
1!J E0764 Functional neuromuscular stimulation, 
transcutaneous stimulation of sequential 
muscle groups of ambulation with computer 
control, used for walking by spinal cord 
injured, entire system, after completion of 
training program 
li1lll y 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: KF, RR 
II E0765 FDA approved nerve stimulator, with 
replaceable batteries, for treatment of 
nausea and vomiting 
li1lll y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
192 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" 1s a registered trademark of the Amer,can Med,cal Assoc1at10n. All rights reserved. 
L 
L 
,,. 
L 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
(I E0766 Electrical stimulation device used for 
cancer treatment, includes all accessories, 
any type 
mv 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF. RR 
l!J E0769 Electrical stimulation or electromagnetic 
wound treatment device, not otherwise 
classified 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E0770 Functional electrical stimulator, 
transcutaneous stimulation of nerve and/or 
muscle groups, any type, complete system, 
not otherwise specified 
Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
INFUSION PUMPS AND SUPPLIES (E0776-E0791) 
(I E0776 IV pole 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Ef 'E0779 Ambulatory infusion pump, mechanical, 
reusable, for infusion 8 hours or 
mv 
greater 
mv 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
S E0780 Ambulatory infusion pump, mechanical, 
reusable, for infusion less than 8 hours l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU 
l!J E0781 Ambulatory infusion pump, single or multiple 
channels, electric or battery operated, 
with administrative equipment, 
worn by patient 
l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0782 Infusion pump, implantable, non­
programmable (includes all components, 
e.g., pump, catheter, connectors, etc.) l!ml N
BETOS: D1 E Other DME
DME Modifier: KF, NU, RR, UE
l!J E0783 Infusion pump system, implantable, 
programmable (includes all components, 
e.g., pump, catheter, connectors, etc.) l!ml N
BETOS: D1E Other DME
DME Modifier: KF, NU, RR, UE
l!J E0784 External ambulatory infusion pump, 
insulin 
l!mlY 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0785 Implantable intraspinal (epidural/intrathecal) 
catheter used with implantable infusion 
pump, replacement 
m N 
BETOS: D 1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF 
E0766 - E0890 
l!J E0786 Implantable programmable infusion 
pump, replacement (excludes implantable 
intraspinal catheter) 
m N 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF, NU, RR, UE 
D E0787 External ambulatory infusion pump, insulin, 
dosage rate adjustment using therapeutic 
continuous glucose sensing 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E0791 Parenteral infusion pump, stationary, 
single or multi-channel 
m Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
TRACTION AND OTHER ORTHOPEDIC DEVICES (E0830-E0948) 
l!J E0830 Ambulatory traction device, all types, each N 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E0840 Traction frame, attached to headboard, 
cervical traction 
' 
m Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU. RR, UE 
(I E0849 Traction equipment, cervical, free-standing 
stand/frame, pneumatic, applying traction 
force to other than mandible 
m Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0850 Traction stand, free standing, cervical 
traction 
mv 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
(I E0855 Cervical traction equipment not 
requiring additional stand or frame 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
(I E0856 Cervical traction device, with inflatable 
mv 
air bladder(s) 
l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E0860 Traction equipment, overdoor, cervical l!ml Y 
BETOS: D 1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0870 Traction frame, attached to footboard, 
extremity traction, (e.g., Buck's) 
m Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0880 Traction stand, free standing, extremity 
traction 
mv 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU. RR. UE 
l!J E0890 Traction frame, attached to footboard, 
pelvic traction 
l!ml Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
a' Male only 
¥ Female only 
Q Age 
A2- 23 = ASC Payment Indicator 
A -Y -c APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
l!ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
llJlD MIPS code 
CPT9 ,s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
193 
E0900 - E0957 
Durable Medical Equipment (E0100-E8002) 
194 
l:J E0900 Traction stand, free standing, pelvic 
traction, (e.g., Buck's) 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l:J E0910 Trapeze bars, also known as Patient
Helper, attached to bed, with grab bar Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l:J E0911 Trapeze bar, heavy duty, for patient weight
capacity greater than 250 pounds, 
attached to bed, with grab bar 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier· RR 
l:J E0912 Trapeze bar, heavy duty, for patient weight
capacity greater than 250 pounds, free 
standing, complete with grab bar 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
l:J E0920 Fracture frame, attached to bed,
includes weights 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier. RR 
l:J E0930 Fracture frame, free standing, includes
Eml y 
weights 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier· RR 
l:J E0935 Continuous passive motion exercise
device for use on knee only 
llml Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
li!il E0936 Continuous passive motion exercise device
for use other than knee 
E 1 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J E0940 Trapeze bar, free standing, complete
with grab bar 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 B Hospital beds 
DME Modifier: RR 
l:J E0941 Gravity assisted traction device,
any type 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
B E0942 Cervical head harness/halter
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modrfier: NU, RR, UE 
B E0944 Pelvic belUharness/boot
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
B E0945 Extremity belUharness
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Eml y 
Eml y 
limlY 
lilDY 
l:J E0946 Fracture, frame, dual with cross bars,
attached to bed, (e.g., balken, 4 poster) Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
l:J E0947 Fracture frame, attachments for complex
pelvic traction 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l:J E0948 Fracture frame, attachments for complex
cervical traction 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
WHEELCHAIR ACCESSORIES (E0950-E1036) 
l:J E0950 Wheelchair accessory, tray, each
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier. KU, KE, NU. RR, UE 
B E0951 Heel loop/holder, any type, with or
Eml y 
without ankle strap, each 
, Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier· KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
l:J E0952 Toe loop/holder, any type, each
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E0953 Wheelchair accessory, lateral thigh or knee
support, any type including fixed 
mounting hardware, each 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier KU, KE, NU. RR, UE 
B E0954 Wheelchair accessory, foot box, any type,
· 
includes attachment and mounting
hardware, each foot 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR. UE 
B E0955 Wheelchair accessory, headrest, cushioned,
any type, including fixed mounting 
hardware, each 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
B E0956 Wheelchair accessory, lateral trunk or hip
·• 
support, any type, including fixed 
mounting hardware, each 
llml Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
&I E0957 Wheelchair accessory, medial thigh support,
any type, including fixed mounting 
hardware, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
• Newcode
• Revised code 
[I Carrier judgment 
l:J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clrnic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
l!J E0958 Manual wheelchair accessory, one-arm 
drive attachment, each 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: KU, RR 
131 E0959 Manual wheelchair accessory, adapter 
for amputee, each 
Elli B 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
131 E0960 Wheelchair accessory, shoulder harness/ 
straps or chest strap, including any type 
mounting hardware 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
131 E0961 Manual wheelchair accessory, wheel lock 
brake extension (handle), each 
Elli B 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier. KU, NU, RR. UE 
al E0966 Manual wheelchair accessory, headrest 
extension, each 
Elli B 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier. KU, NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0967 Manual wheelchair accessory, hand rim with 
projections, any type, replacement only, 
l!J E0968 
l!J E0969 
0 E0970 
l3I E0971 
each 
ElllY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
Commode seat, wheelchair 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
Narrowing device, wheelchair 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
No.2 footplates, except for elevating 
leg rest 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Manual wheelchair accessory, 
anti-tipping device, each 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
ElllY 
ElllY 
E1 
Elli B 
l!J E0973 Wheelchair accessory, adjustable height, 
detachable armrest, complete assembly, 
each 
ElllB 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR. UE 
E0958 - E0994 
l!J E0974 Manual wheelchair accessory, 
anti-rollback device, each 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
131 E0978 Wheelchair accessory, positioning 
belUsafety belUpelvic strap, each 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
131 E0980 Safety vest, wheelchair 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
131 E0981 Wheelchair accessory, seat upholstery, 
mis 
Elli B 
EDY 
replacement only, each 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
131 E0982 Wheelchair accessory, back upholstery, 
replacement only, each 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
131 E0983 Manual wheelchair accessory, ´ower add-on 
to convert manual wheelchair to motorized 
wheelchair, joystick control 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
131 E0984 Manual wheelchair accessory, power add-on 
to convert manual wheelchair to motorized 
wheelchair, tiller control 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
131 E0985 Wheelchair accessory, seat lift 
mechanism 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, RR 
mlY 
131 E0986 Manual wheelchair accessory, push-rim 
activated power assist system 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
131 E0988 Manual wheelchair accessory, lever-
activated, wheel drive, pair 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
131 E0990 Wheelchair accessory, elevating leg 
rest, complete assembly, each 
ED B 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
131 E0992 Manual wheelchair accessory, 
solid seat insert 
ED B 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
l!J E0994 Arm rest, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: D 1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
r/' Male only 
µ Female only 
8 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Status indica tor 
tlm MIPScode 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
195 
E0995 - El 035 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 00-E8002) 
196 
ml E0995 Wheelchair accessory, calf resUpad, 
replacement only, each 
Eml B 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
ml E1002 Wheelchair accessory, power seating 
system, tilt only 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1003 Wheelchair accessory, power seating 
system, recline only, without shear 
reduction 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1004 Wheelchair accessory, power seating 
system, recline only, with mechanical 
shear reduction 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1005 Wheelchair accessory, power seating 
system, recline only, with power shear 
reduction 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1006 Wheelchair accessory, power seating 
system, combination tilt and recline, 
without shear reduction 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1007 Wheelchair accessory, power seating 
system, combination tilt and recline, 
with mechanical shear reduction 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1008 Wheelchair accessory, power seating 
system, combination tilt and recline, 
with power shear reduction 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1009 Wheelchair accessory, addition to power 
seating system, mechanically linked leg 
elevation system, including pushrod and 
leg rest, each 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
ml E1010 Wheelchair accessory, addition to power 
seating system, power leg elevation 
system, including leg rest, pair 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
l!J E1011 Modification to pediatric size wheelchair, 
width adjustment package (not to be 
dispensed with initial chair) 
Eml O Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
ml E1012 Wheelchair accessory, addition to power 
seating system, center mount power 
elevating leg resUplatform, complete 
system, any type, each 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, RR 
l!J E1014 Reclining back, addition to pediatric 
size wheelchair 
mll O Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E1015 Shock absorber for manual wheelchair, 
each 
mllY 
BETOS: D 1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
l!J E1016 Shock absorber for power wheelchair, 
each 
mllY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
l!J E1017 Heavy duty shock absorber for heavy duty 
or extra heavy duty manual wheelchair, 
each 
, m!IY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E1018 Heavy duty shock absorber for heavy duty 
or extra heavy duty power wheelchair, 
each 
mllY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E1020 Residual limb support system for 
wheelchair, any type 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1028 Wheelchair accessory, manual swing away, 
retractable or removable mounting hardware 
for joystick, other control interface or 
positioning accessory 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1029 Wheelchair accessory, ventilator tray, 
fixed 
mllY 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ml E1030 Wheelchair accessory, ventilator tray, 
gimbaled 
mllY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KE, KU, RR 
l!J E1031 Rollabout chair, any and all types with 
castors 5 inch or greater 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· RR 
l!J E1035 Multi-positional patient transfer system, with 
integrated seat, operated by care giver, 
patient weight capacity up to and 
including 300 lbs 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· RR 
• Newcode
& Revised code 
Iii Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!il Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" 1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Assoc1at1on. All nghts reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 00-E8002) 
ml E1036 Multi-positional patient transfer system, 
extra-wide, with integrated seat, operated 
by caregiver, patient weight capacity 
greater than 300 lbs 
EIII y 
BETOS: D 1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
TRANSPORT CHAIRS (E1037-E1039) 
DJ E1037 Transport chair, pediatric size 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E1038 Transport chair, adult size, patient 
weight capacity up to and including 
Elllo Y 
300 pounds 
EIII o y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
ml E1039 Transport chair, adult size, heavy duty, 
patient weight capacity greater than 
300 pounds 
EIII o Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
FULLY RECLINING WHEELCHAIRS (E1050-E1070) 
DJ E1050 Fully-reclining wheelchair, fixed full length 
arms, swing away detachable elevating 
leg rests 
EIII y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E1060 Fully-reclining wheelchair, detachable arms, 
desk or full length, swing away 
detachable elevating leg rests 
EIII y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E1070 Fully-reclining wheelchair, detachable 
arms (desk or full length) swing away 
detachable footrest 
EIII y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
HEMI-WHEELCHAIRS (E1083-E1086) 
DJ E1083 Hemi-wheelchair, fixed full length arms, 
swing away detachable elevating 
legrest 
EIII y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E1084 Hemi-wheelchair, detachable arms 
desk or full length arms, swing away 
detachable elevating leg rests 
EIII y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
D E1085 Hemi-wheelchair, fixed full length arms, 
swing away detachable footrests 
E1 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E1036- El 110 
D E1086 Hemi-wheelchair detachable arms desk 
or full length, swing away detachable 
footrests 
E 1 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
LIGHTWEIGHT, HIGH-STRENGTH WHEELCHAIRS 
(E1087-E1090) 
DJ E1087 High strength lightweight wheelchair, fixed 
full length arms, swing away detachable 
elevating leg rests 
EIII y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E1088 High strength lightweight wheelchair, 
detachable arms desk or full length, 
swing away detachable elevating 
leg rests 
EIII Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· RR 
D E1089 High strength lightweight wheelchair, 
fixed length arms, swing away detachable 
footrest 
E1 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D E1090 High strength lightweight wheelchair, 
detachable arms desk or full length, 
swing away detachable footrests 
E1 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
HEAVY DUTY, WIDE WHEELCHAIRS (E1092, E1093) 
DJ E1092 Wide heavy duty wheel chair, detachable 
arms (desk or full length), swing away 
detachable elevating leg rests 
m y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
DJ E1093 Wide heavy duty wheelchair, detachable 
arms desk or full length arms, swing 
away detachable footrests 
EllJ y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
SEMI-RECLINING WHEELCHAIRS (E1100, E1110) 
DJ E1100 Semi-reclining wheelchair, fixed full length 
arms, swing away detachable 
elevating leg rests 
EllJ y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
E E1110 Semi-reclining wheelchair, detachable 
arms (desk or full length) elevating 
legrest 
EIII y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
ci' Male only 
¬ Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = A­ P.;ymem lfidlt-at& 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
E1!1 Paid under the DME fee schedule 
r;i1J MIPS code 
CPT" 1s a registered trademark of the Amer,can Medical Assoc1atian. All rights reserved. 
197 
E1130-E1228 
STANDARD WHEELCHAIRS (E1130-E1161) 
D E1130 Standard wheelchair, fixed full length 
arms, fixed or swing away 
detachable footrests 
E1  
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D E1140 Wheelchair, detachable arms, desk 
or full length, swing away detachable 
footrests 
E 1  
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m E1150 Wheelchair, detachable arms, desk or full 
length swing away detachable 
elevating leg rests 
EIII Y cm
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· RR 
m E1160 Wheelchair, fixed full length arms, 
swing away detachable elevating 
leg rests 
EIII Y  
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
Ii E1161 Manual adult size wheelchair, 
includes tilt in space 
EIII o Y cm
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
AMPUTEE WHEELCHAIRS (E1170-E1200) 
m E1170 Amputee wheelchair, fixed full length 
arms, swing away detachable elevating 
leg rests 
El!IY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E1171 Amputee wheelchair, fixed full length 
arms, without footrests or legrest 
EIII Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E1172 Amputee wheelchair, detachable arms 
(desk or full length) without footrests or 
legrest 
EIIIY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E1180 Amputee wheelchair, detachable 
arms (desk or full length) swing away 
detachable footrests 
EIII Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E1190 Amputee wheelchair, detachable 
arms (desk or full length) swing away 
detachable elevating leg rests 
EIII Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
m E1195 Heavy duty wheelchair, fixed full length 
arms, swing away detachable 
elevating leg rests 
EIII Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E1200 Amputee wheelchair, fixed full length arms, 
swing away detachable footrest 
EIII Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
OTHER WHEELCHAIRS AND ACCESSORIES (E1220-E1228) 
m E1220 Wheelchair; specially sized or constructed, 
(indicate brand name, model number, 
if any) and justification 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
m E1221 Wheelchair with fixed arm, footrests 
EIII Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E1222 Wheelchair with fixed arm, elevating 
leg rests 
' EIII Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E1223 Wheelchair with detachable arms, 
footrests 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
m E1224 Wheelchair with detachable arms, 
elevating leg rests 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El!IY 
-
m E1225 Wheelchair accessory, manual semi-reclining 
back, (recline greater than 15 degrees, 
but less than 80 degrees), each 
EIII Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, RR 
m E1226 Wheelchair accessory, manual fully reclining 
back, (recline greater than 80 degrees), 
each 
Ellis 
BETOS: D 1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DME Modifier· KU, NU, RR, UE 
m E1227 Special height arms for wheelchair 
EIII Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· NU, RR, UE 
m E1228 Special back height for wheelchair 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
EIIIY 
• Newcode 
• Revised code
Ii Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clime 
198 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
PEDIATRIC WHEELCHAIRS (E1229-E1239) 
II E1229 Wheelchair, pediatric size, not otherwise 
specified 
0 Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
l!J E1230 Power operated vehicle (three or four wheel 
nonhighway) specify brand name and 
model number 
lim Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
□ME Modifier: NU, RR, UE
l!J E1231 Wheelchair, pediatric size, tilt-in-space, 
rigid, adjustable, with seating system m 0 Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
□ME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E1232 Wheelchair, pediatric size, tilt-in­
space, folding, adjustable, with seating 
system 
mov 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
□ME Modifier: RR
l!J E1233 Wheelchair, pediatric size, till-in-space, rigid, 
adjustable, without seating system m 0 Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
□ME Modifier: RR
l!J E1234 Wheelchair, pediatric size, tilt-in-space, folding, 
adjustable, without seating system 
m 0 Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· RR 
l!J E1235 Wheelchair, pediatric size, rigid, adjustable, 
with seating system 
lim 0 Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
□ME Modifier: RR
l!J E1236 Wheelchair, pediatric size, folding, 
adjustable, with seating system 
m 0 Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E1237 Wheelchair, pediatric size, rigid, adjustable, 
without seating system 
lim 0 Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E1238 Wheelchair, pediatric size, folding, 
adjustable, without seating system m 0 Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
E1229-E1310 
D E1250 Lightweight wheelchair, fixed full length 
arms, swing away detachable footrest E1 tlm 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
D E1260 Lightweight wheelchair, detachable 
arms (desk or full length) swing away 
detachable footrest 
E1 tlm 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part 8
l!J E1270 Lightweight wheelchair, fixed full 
length arms, swing away detachable 
elevating leg rests 
lim Y tllm 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
HEAVY DUTY AND SPECIAL WHEELCHAIRS (E1280-E1298) 
l!J E1280 Heavy duty wheelchair, detachable 
arms (desk or full length) elevating 
leg rests 
lim Y tlm 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
□ME Modifier: RR
D E1285 Heavy duty wheelchair, fixed full length 
arms, swing away detachable footrest E1 tlm 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
O E1290 Heavy duty wheelchair, detachable 
arms (desk or full length) swing away 
detachable footrest 
E1 tlm 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
l!J E1295 Heavy duty wheelchair, fixed full length 
arms, elevating legrest 
m Y tlm 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME ModifieL RR 
l!J E1296 Special wheelchair seat height 
from floor 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
l!J E1297 Special wheelchair seat depth, 
by upholstery 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
GIIYtlm 
mvtim 
l!J E1298 Special wheelchair seat depth and/or 
width, by construction 
m Y tlm 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
WHIRLPOOL BATHS (E1300-E1310) 
II E1239 Power wheelchair, pediatric size, 
not otherwise specified 
0 Y 
19 E1300 Whirlpool, portable (overtub type) 
E1 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
Coding Clinic: 2006, 01 
LIGHTWEIGHT WHEELCHAIRS (E1240-E1270) 
l!J E1240 Lightweight wheelchair, detachable arms, 
(desk or full length) swing away detachable, 
elevating legrest 
m Y tlm 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier. RR 
BETOS: D1E Other □ME 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
. • l9 E1301 Whirlpool tub, walk-in, portable
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
l!J E1310 Whirlpool, non-portable (built-in type) lim Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
DME Modifier· NU. RR, UE 
d' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
B Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A • Y = APC Status Indicator 
tlm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
199 
El 352 - El 570 
ACCESSORIES FOR OXYGEN DELIVERY DEVICES 
(E1352-E1406) 
S E1352 Oxygen accessory, flow regulator capable 
of positive inspiratory pressure 
Y 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ID E1353 Regulator 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S E1354 Oxygen accessory, wheeled cart for portable 
cylinder or portable concentrator. any type, 
replacement only, each 
Y 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately pnced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
ID E1355 Stand/rack 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S E1356 Oxygen accessory, battery pack/cartridge for 
portable concentrator, any type, replacement 
00 
y 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
S E1357 Oxygen accessory, battery charger 
for portable concentrator, any type, 
replacement only, each 
Y 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008 Q4 
ID E1358 Oxygen accessory, DC power adapter for 
portable concentrator, any type, replacement 
only, each 
Y 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
l!J E1372 Immersion external heater for nebulizer Im Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
ID E1390 Oxygen concentrator, single delivery port, 
capable of delivering 85 percent or greater 
oxygen concentration at the prescribed 
flow rate 
mv 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier QB, QF, RR 
ID E1391 Oxygen concentrator, dual delivery port, 
capable of delivering 85 percent or greater 
oxygen concentration at the prescribed 
flow rate, each 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier QB, QF, RR 
ID E1392 Portable oxygen concentrator, rental 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier: QB, QF, RR 
Durable Medical Equipment (E0100-E8002) 
S E1399 Durable medical equipment, miscellaneous Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 110.5 
ID E1405 Oxygen and water vapor enriching system 
with heated delivery 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier: RR 
l!J E1406 Oxygen and water vapor enriching system 
without heated delivery 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier: RR 
DIALYSIS SYSTEMS AND ACCESSORIES (E1500-E1699) 
ID E1500 Centrifuge, for dialysis 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
A 
ID E1510
B E1520
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
Kidney, dialysate delivery system, kidney 
machine, pump recirculating, air removal 
system, flowrate meter, power off, heater 
and temperature control with alarm, IV poles, 
pressure gauge, concentrate container 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Heparin infusion pump for hemodialysis 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E1530 Air bubble detector for hemodialysis, 
each, replacement 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E1540 Pressure alarm for hemodialysis, each, 
replacement 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E1550 Bath conductivity meter for hemodialysis, 
each 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E1560 Blood leak detector for hemodialysis, each, 
replacement 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E1570 Adjustable chair, for ESRD patients 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
II Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare
li9 Non-covered by Medicare
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
200 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
c. 
\-, 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
l!J E1575 Transducer protectors/fluid barriers, for 
hemodialysis, any size, per 10 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E1580 Unipuncture control system for 
hemodialysis 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E1590 Hemodialysis machine 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Dialysis medical device 
l!J E1592 Automatic intermittent peritoneal dialysis 
A 
A 
A 
system 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E1594 Cycler dialysis machine for peritoneal 
dialysis 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E1600 Delivery and/or installation charges for 
hemodialysis equipment 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E1610 Reverse osmosis water purification system, 
for hemodialysis 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E1615 Deionizer water purification system, for 
hemodialysis 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E1620 Blood pump for hemodialysis, replacement A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
El 575 - El 702 
l!J E1625 Water softening system, for hemodialysis 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E1629 Tabla hemodialysis system for the billable 
dialysis service 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E1630 Reciprocating peritoneal dialysis system 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E1632 Wearable artificial kidney, each 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A 
l!J E1634 Peritoneal dialysis clamps, each 
B 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by 'part B 
l!J E1635 Compact (portable) travel hemodialyzer 
system 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E E1636 Sorbent cartridges, for hemodialysis, per 10 A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J E1637 Hemostats, each 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
l!J E1639 Scale, each 
A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
E E1699 Dialysis equipment, not otherwise specified A 
BETOS: P9B Dialysis services 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
JAW MOTION REHABILITATION SYSTEMS (E1700-E1702) 
B E1700 Jaw motion rehabilitation system 
BETOS: 01 E Other DME 
DME Modifier RR 
B E1701 Replacement cushions for jaw motion 
-
rehabilitation system, pkg. of 6 
llLlll Y 
BETOS: 01 E Other DME 
B E1702 Replacement measuring scales for jaw motion 
rehabilitation system, pkg. of 200 
llLlll Y 
BETOS: 01 E Other DME 
o1 Maleonly 
!j>. Femaleonly 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC App roved P rocedu re 
A2 • 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
l!lD Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Sta tus indicator 
tm) MIPS code 
CPI" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
201 
E1800- E1902 
EXTENSION/FLEXION REHABILITATION DEVICES 
(E1800-E1841) 
Bl E1800 Dynamic adjustable elbow extension/flexion 
device, includes soft interface material EDY 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier· RR 
Bl E1801 Static progressive stretch elbow device, 
extension and/or flexion, with or without 
range of motion adjustment, includes all 
components and accessories 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Bl E1802 Dynamic adjustable forearm pronation/ 
supination device, includes soft interface 
material 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Bl E1805 Dynamic adjustable wrist extension I flexion 
device, includes soft interface material EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Bl E1806 Static progressive stretch wrist device, 
flexion and/or extension, with or without 
range of motion adjustment, includes all 
components and accessories 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Bl E1810 Dynamic adjustable knee extension I flexion 
device, includes soft interface material EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Bl E1811 Static progressive stretch knee device, 
extension and/or flexion, with or without 
range of motion adjustment, includes all 
components and accessories 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· RR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Bl E1812 Dynamic knee, extension/flexion device 
with active resistance control 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier· RR 
Bl E1815 Dynamic adjustable ankle extension/flexion 
device, includes soft interface material EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Bl E1816 Static progressive stretch ankle device, 
flexion and/or extension, with or without 
range of motion adjustment, includes all 
components and accessories 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
Bl E1818 Static progressive stretch forearm pronation 
/ supination device, with or without 
range of motion adjustment, includes all 
components and accessories 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Bl E1820 Replacement soft interface material, 
dynamic adjustable extension/flexion 
device 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier. NU, RR, UE 
Bl E1821 Replacement soft interface material/ 
cuffs for bi-directional static progressive 
stretch device 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Bl E1825 Dynamic adjustable finger extension/ 
flexion device, includes soft interface, 
material 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Bl E1830 Dynamic adjustable toe extension/flexion 
device, includes soft interface material EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier; RR 
Bl E1831 Static progressive stretch toe device, 
extension and/or flexion, with or without 
range of motion adjustment, includes 
all components and accessories 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Bl E1840 Dynamic adjustable shoulder flexion 
/ abduction / rotation device, includes 
soft interface material 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Bl E1841 Static progressive stretch shoulder 
device, with or without range of motion 
adjustment, includes all components 
and accessories 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
COMMUNICATION BOARDS (E1902) 
Bl E1902 Communication board, non-electronic 
augmentative or alternative communication 
device 
Y 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
• Newcode 
' Revised code 
Bl Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic"' 
202 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Assac1at1an. All rights reserved. 
C 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 00-E8002) 
VIRTUAL REALITY COGNITIVE BEHAVIORAL THERAPY 
DEVICE (CBT) (E1905) 
• S E1905 Virtual reality cognitive behavioral therapy
device (cbt), including pre-programmed 
therapy software 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
MISCELLANEOUS PUMPS AND MONITORS (E2000-E2120) 
S E2000 Gastric suction pump, home model, 
portable or stationary, electric 
EDY 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier. RR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
• S E2001 Suction pump, home model, portable or
stationary, electric, any type, for use with 
external urine management system 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
I!) E2100 Blood glucose monitor with integrated 
voice synthesizer 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
I!) E2101 Blood glucose monitor with integrated 
lancing/blood sample 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
S E2102 Adjunctive, non-implanted continuous 
glucose monitor or receiver 
EDY 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF, NU, RR. UE 
S E2103 Non-adjunctive, non-implanted continuous 
glucose monitor or receiver 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF, NU, RR, UE 
S E2120 Pulse generator system for tympanic 
treatment of inner ear endolymphatic 
fluid 
EDY 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier. RR 
MANUAL WHEELCHAIR ACCESSORIES (E2201-E2295) 
S E2201 Manual wheelchair accessory, nonstandard 
seat frame, width greater than or equal to 
20 inches and less than 24 inches 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier KU, NU, RR, UE 
S E2202 Manual wheelchair accessory, nonstandard 
seat frame width, 24-27 inches 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
E190S - E2214 
S E2203 Manual wheelchair accessory, nonstandard 
seat frame depth, 20 to less than 
22 inches 
EDY 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
S E2204 Manual wheelchair accessory, nonstandard 
seat frame depth, 22 to 25 inches 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
S E2205 Manual wheelchair accessory, handrim 
without projections (includes ergonomic 
or contoured), any type, replacement only, 
each 
EDY 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
S E2206 Manual wheelchair accessory, wheel lock 
assembly, complete, replacement only, 
each 
BllY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE ' 
S E2207 Wheelchair accessory, crutch and cane 
holder, each 
Bil Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
S E2208 Wheelchair accessory, cylinder tank 
carrier, each 
Bil Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
S E2209 Accessory, arm trough, with or without 
hand support, each 
Bil Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
S E2210 Wheelchair accessory, bearings, any 
type, replacement only, each 
Bil Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
S E2211 Manual wheelchair accessory, pneumatic 
propulsion tire, any size, each 
Bil Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
S E2212 Manual wheelchair accessory, tube for 
pneumatic propulsion tire, any size, 
each 
BllY 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier- KU, NU, RR, UE 
S E2213 Manual wheelchair accessory, insert for 
pneumatic propulsion 1ire (removable), 
any type, any size, each 
Bil Y 
BETOS: 010 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
S E2214 Manual wheelchair accessory, pneumatic 
caster tire, any size, each 
Bil Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, NU, RR, UE 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -23 = ASC Payment indicator 
Bil Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
(1;!11 MIPScode 
CP$ 1s a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
203 
E2215- E2311 
Durable Medical Equipment (E0100-E8002) 
204 
B E2215 Manual wheelchair accessory, tube for 
pneumatic caster tire, any size, each 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2216 Manual wheelchair accessory, foam filled 
propulsion tire, any size, each 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2217 Manual wheelchair accessory, foam filled 
caster tire, any size, each 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2218 Manual wheelchair accessory, foam 
propulsion tire, any size, each 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2219 Manual wheelchair accessory, foam 
caster tire, any size, each 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2io Manual wheelchair accessory, solid 
(rubber/plastic) propulsion tire, any size, 
replacement only, each 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2221 Manual wheelchair accessory, solid (rubber/ 
plastic) caster tire (removable), any size, 
replacement only, each 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2222 Manual wheelchair accessory, solid (rubber/ 
plastic) caster tire with integrated wheel, 
any size, replacement only, each 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2224 Manual wheelchair accessory, propulsion 
wheel excludes tire, any size, replacement 
only, each 
EllJ y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2225 Manual wheelchair accessory, caster wheel 
excludes tire, any size, replacement only, 
each 
EllJy 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2226 Manual wheelchair accessory, caster 
fork, any size, replacement only, each EllJ Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier' KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2227 Manual wheelchair accessory, gear 
reduction drive wheel, each 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
EllJY 
B E2228 Manual wheelchair accessory, wheel braking 
system and lock, complete, each 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier. KU, RR 
B E2230 Manual wheelchair accessory, manual 
standing system 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B E2231 Manual wheelchair accessory, solid 
y 
seat support base (replaces sling seat), 
includes any type mounting hardware EllJ Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B E2291 Back, planar, for pediatric size wheelchair 
including fixed attaching hardware 
0 Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B E2292 Seat, planar, for pediatric size wheelchair 
including fixed attaching hardware 
, 
0 Y
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B E2293 Back, contoured, for pediatric size 
wheelchair including fixed attaching 
hardware 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
OY 
B E2294 Seat, contoured, for pediatric size wheelchair 
including fixed attaching hardware 
0 Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B E2295 Manual wheelchair accessory, for pediatric 
size wheelchair, dynamic seating frame, 
allows coordinated movement of multiple 
positioning features 
0 Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
POWER WHEELCHAIR ACCESSORIES (E2300-E2398) 
B E2300 Wheelchair accessory, power seat elevation 
system, any type 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B E2301 Wheelchair accessory, power standing 
system, any type 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B E2310 Power wheelchair accessory, electronic 
connection between wheelchair controller 
and one power seating system motor, 
including all related electroniss, indicator 
feature, mechanical function selection 
switch, and fixed mounting hardware 
EllJ Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KE, KU, RR 
B E2311 Power wheelchair accessory, electronic 
connection between wheelchair controller 
and two or more power seating system 
motors, including all related electronics, 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPJW 1s o registered trademark of the American Medico/ Association. All rights reserved. 
C 
I "-
(_ 
Durable Medical Equipment (E0100-E8002) 
indicator feature, mechanical function 
selection switch, and fixed mounting 
hardware 
l!lmlY 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR
el E2312 Power wheelchair accessory, hand or chin 
control interface, mini-proportional remote 
joystick, proportional, including fixed 
mounting hardware 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier. KC, RR
el E2313 Power wheelchair accessory, harness for 
upgrade to expandable controller, including 
all fasteners, connectors and mounting 
hardware, each 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR
el E2321 Power wheelchair accessory, hand control 
interface, remote joystick, nonproportional, 
including all related electronics, mechanical 
stop switch, and fixed mounting 
hardware 
l!lmlY 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KC, KE, KU, RR 
el E2322 Power wheelchair accessory, hand control 
interface, multiple mechanical switches, 
nonproportional, including all related 
electronics, mechanical stop switch, and 
fixed mounting hardware 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KC, KE, KU. RR
el E2323 Power wheelchair accessory, specialty 
joystick handle for hand control interface, 
prefabricated 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
el E2324 Power wheelchair accessory, chin cup for 
chin control interface 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU. KE, NU, RR, UE 
el E2325 Power wheelchair accessory, sip and 
puff interface, nonproportional, including 
all related electronics, mechanical stop 
switch, and manual swingaway mounting 
hardware 
lllmlY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
el E2326 Power wheelchair accessory, breath 
tube kit for sip and puff interface 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
el E2327 Power wheelchair accessory, head control 
interface, mechanical, proportional, 
including all related electronics, mechanical 
E2312 - E2358 
direction change switch, and fixed 
mounting hardware 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KC, KE, KU, RR 
el E2328 Power wheelchair accessory, head control 
or extremity control interface, electronic, 
proportional, including all related electronics 
and fixed mounting hardware 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR
el E2329 Power wheelchair accessory, head control 
interface, contact switch mechanism, 
nonproportional, including all related 
electronics, mechanical stop switch, 
mechanical direction change switch, head 
array, and fixed mounting hardware 
l!lml Y
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KE, KU, RR 
el E2330 Power wheelchair accessory, head control 
interface, proximity switch mechanism, 
nonproportional, including all related 
electronics, mechanical stop switch, 
mechanical direction change switch, head 
array, and fixed mounting hardware 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR
el E2331 Power wheelchair accessory, attendant 
control, proportional, including all related 
electronics and fixed mounting hardware 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
el E2340 Power wheelchair accessory, nonstandard 
seat frame width, 20-23 inches 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
el E2341 Power wheelchair accessory, nonstandard 
seat frame width, 24-27 inches 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
el E2342 Power wheelchair accessory, nonstandard 
seat frame depth, 20 or 21 inches 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR. UE 
el E2343 Power wheelchair accessory, nonstandard 
seat frame depth, 22-25 inches 
l!lml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU. RR, UE 
el E2351 Power wheelchair accessory, electronic 
interface to operate speech generating 
device using power wheelchair control 
interface 
m y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
el E2358 Power wheelchair accessory, group 34 
non-sealed lead acid battery, each 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
y 
rl' Male only 
¢ Female only 
0 Age 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC'"' ASC Approved Procedure 
liml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
tm1 MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
205 
E2359- E2381 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 00-E8002) 
206 
ri E2359 Power wheelchair accessory, group 34 
sealed lead acid battery, each (e.g., gel cell, 
absorbed glassmat) 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
ri E2360 Power wheelchair accessory, 22 NF non-
sealed lead acid battery, each 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
ri E2361 Power wheelchair accessory, 22 NF sealed 
lead acid battery, each, (e.g., gel cell, 
absorbed glassmat) 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
ri E2362 Power wheelchair accessory, group 24 
non-sealed lead acid battery, each 
liml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
ri E2363 Power wheelchair accessory, group 24 
sealed lead acid battery, each (e.g., gel cell, 
absorbed glassmat) 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
ri E2364 Power wheelchair accessory, U-1 
non-sealed lead acid battery, each 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
ri E2365 Power wheelchair accessory, U-1 sealed 
lead acid battery, each (e.g., gel cell, 
absorbed glassmat) 
liml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
ri E2366 Power wheelchair accessory, battery 
charger, single mode, for use with only 
one battery type, sealed or non-sealed, 
each 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
ri E2367 Power wheelchair accessory, battery 
charger, dual mode, for use with either 
battery type, sealed or non-sealed, 
each 
limlY 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
ri E2368 Power wheelchair component, drive wheel 
motor, replacement only 
liml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ri E2369 Power wheelchair component, drive wheel 
gear box, replacement only 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier. KE, KU, RR 
ri E2370 Power wheelchair component, integrated 
drive wheel motor and gear box combination, 
replacement only 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ri E2371 Power wheelchair accessory, group 27 
sealed lead acid battery, (e.g., gel cell, 
absorbed glassmat), each 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, KE, NU, RR. UE 
ri E2372 Power wheelchair accessory, group 27 
non-sealed lead acid battery, each 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
ri E2373 Power wheelchair accessory, hand or chin 
control interface, compact remote joystick, 
proportional, including fixed mounting 
hardware 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KC, KE, KU, RR
liJ E2374 Power wheelchair accessory, hand or 
chin control interface, standard remote 
joystick (not including controller), 
proportional, including all related 
electronics and fixed mounting hardware, 
replacement only 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
liJ E2375 Power wheelchair accessory, non­
expandable controller, including all related 
electronics and mounting hardware, 
replacement only 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
liJ E2376 Power wheelchair accessory, expandable 
controller, including all related 
electronics and mounting hardware, 
replacement only 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
liJ E2377 Power wheelchair accessory, expandable 
controller, including all related electronics 
and mounting hardware, upgrade provided 
at initial issue 
liml y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE, KU, RR 
ri E2378 Power wheelchair component, actuator, 
replacement only 
­ 
liml y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, RR 
liJ E2381 Power wheelchair accessory, pneumatic 
drive wheel tire, any size, replacement 
only, each 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
ri Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT-Is a l'!gistered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
C 
Durable Medical Equipment (EOl OO-E8002) 
liJ E2382 Power wheelchair accessory, tube for 
pneumatic drive wheel tire, any size, 
replacement only, each 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2383 Power wheelchair accessory, insert for 
pneumatic drive wheel tire (removable), any 
type, any size, replacement only, each mll Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2384 Power wheelchair accessory, pneumatic 
caster tire, any size, replacement only, 
each 
mllY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2385 Power wheelchair accessory, tube for 
pneumatic caster tire, any size, replacement 
only, each 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2386 Power wheelchair accessory, foam filled 
drive wheel tire, any size, replacement 
only, each 
mll Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR. UE 
liJ E2387 Power wheelchair accessory, foam filled 
caster tire, any size, replacement only, 
each 
mllY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2388 Power wheelchair accessory, foam drive 
wheel tire, any size, replacement only, 
each 
m!IY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2389 Power wheelchair accessory, foam caster 
tire, any size, replacement only, each mll Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
Ii) E2390 Power wheelchair accessory, solid 
(rubber/plastic) drive wheel tire, any size, 
replacement only, each 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2391 Power wheelchair accessory, solid (rubber/ 
plastic) caster tire (removable), any size, 
replacement only, each 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2392 Power wheelchair accessory, solid (rubber/ 
plastic) caster tire with integrated wheel, 
any size, replacement only, each 
mll Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
E2382 - E2506 
liJ E2394 Power wheelchair accessory, drive wheel 
excludes tire, any size, replacement only, 
each 
m!IY 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2395 Power wheelchair accessory, caster wheel 
excludes tire, any size, replacement only, 
each 
mllY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2396 Power wheelchair accessory, caster fork, 
any size, replacement only, each 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
Ii E2397 Power wheelchair accessory, lithium-based 
battery, each 
rm Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier. KU, NU, RR, UE 
Ii E2398 Wheelchair accessory, dynamic positioning 
hardware for back 
, 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
WOUND THERAPY PUMPS (E2402) 
Ii E2402 Negative pressure wound therapy electrical 
pump, stationary or portable 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
SPEECH GENERATING DEVICES, SOFTWARE, AND 
ACCESSORIES (E2500-E2599) 
liJ E2500 Speech generating device, digitized speech, 
using pre-recorded messages, less than or 
equal to 8 minutes recording time 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier. NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2502 Speech generating device, digitized speech, 
using pre-recorded messages, greater than 
8 minutes but less than or equal to 
20 minutes recording time 
ElII Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
liJ E2504 Speech generating device, digitized speech, 
using pre-recorded messages, greater than 
20 minutes but less than or equal to 
40 minutes recording time 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, LJE 
liJ E2506 Speech generating device, digitized speech, 
using pre-recorded messages, greater 
than 40 minutes recording time 
mll Y 
BETOS: D1 E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
cl Male only 
¥ Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 • 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
mll Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A • Y = APC Status indicator 
lmD MIPS code 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Mttlical Association. All rights reserved. 
207 
E2508 - E2617 
m E2508 Speech generating device, synthesized 
speech, requiring message formulation by 
spelling and access by physical contact 
with the device 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E2510 Speech generating device, synthesized 
speech, permitting multiple methods 
of message formulation and multiple 
methods of device access 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E2511 Speech generating software program, 
for personal computer or personal 
digital assistant 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: NU, RR, UE 
m E2512 Accessory for speech generating device, 
mounting system 
m y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier· NU, RR, UE 
m E2599 Accessory for speech generating device, 
not otherwise classified 
Y 
BETOS: D1E 
other DME 
WHEELCHAIR SEAT AND BACK CUSHIONS (E2601-E2625) 
B E2601 General use wheelchair seal cushion, 
width less than 22 inches, any depth 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU. KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2602 General use wheelchair seal cushion, 
width 22 inches or greater, any depth 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2603 Skin protection wheelchair seat cushion, 
width less than 22 inches, any depth 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2604 Skin protection wheelchair seal cushion, 
width 22 inches or greater, any depth 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2605 Positioning wheelchair seat cushion, 
width less than 22 inches, any depth 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2606 Positioning wheelchair seat cushion, 
width 22 inches or greater, any depth 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE. NU, RR, UE 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
B E2607 Skin protection and positioning wheelchair 
seat cushion, width less than 22 inches, 
any depth 
EmlY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2608 Skin protection and positioning wheelchair 
seat cushion, width 22 inches or greater, 
any depth 
EmlY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR. UE 
B E2609 Custom fabricated wheelchair seat cushion, 
any size 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B E2610 Wheelchair seat cushion, powered 
B 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B E2611 General use wheelchair back cushion, width 
less than 22 inches, any height, including 
any type mounting hardware 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU. KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2612 General use wheelchair back cushion, width 
22 inches or greater, any height, including 
any type mounting hardware 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR. UE 
B E2613 Positioning wheelchair back cushion, 
posterior, width less than 22 inches, 
any height, including any type mounting 
hardware 
EmlY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier· KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2614 Positioning wheelchair back cushion, 
posterior, width 22 inches or greater, 
any height, including any type mounting 
hardware 
ElIIY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU. RR, UE 
B E2615 Positioning wheelchair back cushion, 
posterior-lateral, width less than 22 inches, 
any height, including any type mounting 
hardware 
ElIIY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2616 Positioning wheelchair back cushion, 
posterior-lateral, width 22 inches or greater, 
any height, including any type mounting 
hardware 
ElIIY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE. NU, RR, UE 
B E2617 Custom fabricated wheelchair back cushion, 
any size, including any type mounting 
hardware 
Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
208 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
\...... 
Durable Medical Equipment (E01 OO-E8002) 
B E2619 Replacement cover for wheelchair seat 
cushion or back cushion, each 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2620 Positioning wheelchair back cushion, planar 
back with lateral supports, width less than 
22 inches, any height, including any type 
mounting hardware 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2621 Positioning wheelchair back cushion, planar 
back with lateral supports, width 22 inches 
or greater, any height, including any type 
mounting hardware 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2622 Skin protection wheelchair seat cushion, 
adjustable, width less than 22 inches, 
any depth 
EmlY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2623 Skin protection wheelchair seat cushion, 
adjustable, width 22 inches or greater, 
any depth 
EmlY 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
B E2624 Skin protection and positioning wheelchair 
seat cushion, adjustable, width less than 
22 inches, any depth 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
E2619 - E8002 
B E2629 Wheelchair accessory, shoulder elbow, 
mobile arm support attached to wheelchair, 
balanced, friction arm support (friction 
dampening to proximal and distal 
joints) 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2630 Wheelchair accessory, shoulder elbow, 
mobile arm support, mono suspension arm 
and hand support, overhead elbow forearm 
hand sling support, yoke type suspension 
support 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2631 Wheelchair accessory, addition to mobile 
arm support, elevating proximal arm 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2632 Wheelchair accessory, addition to mobile 
arm support, offset or lateral rm:ker arm 
with elastic balance control 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2633 Wheelchair accessory, addition to 
mobile arm support, supinator 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
SPEECH VOLUME MODULATION SYSTEM (E3000) 
• B E3000 Speech volume modulation system,
any type, including all components and 
EmlY 
B E2625 Skin protection and positioning wheelchair 
accessories 
seat cushion, adjustable, width 22 inches 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
or greater, any depth 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
PEDIATRIC GAIT TRAINERS (EB000-E8002) 
DME Modifier· KU, KE, NU, RR, UE 
D E8000 Gait trainer, pediatric size, posterior 
support, includes all accessories and 
WHEELCHAIR MOBILE ARM SUPPORTS (E2626-E2633) 
components 
0 E1 
B E2626 Wheelchair accessory, shoulder elbow, 
mobile arm support attached to wheelchair, 
balanced, adjustable 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
B E2627 Wheelchair accessory, shoulder elbow, 
mobile arm support attached to wheelchair, 
balanced, adjustable rancho type 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR. UE 
B E2628 Wheelchair accessory, shoulder 
elbow, mobile arm support attached to 
wheelchair, balanced, reclining 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU, NU, RR, UE 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D E8001 Gait trainer, pediatric size, upright 
support, includes all accessories and 
components 
0 E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D E8002 Gait trainer, pediatric size, anterior 
support, includes all accessories and 
components 
0 E 1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
t'Jitl MIPS code 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
209 
NOTES 
' 
------
( '---
L 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
PROCEDURES / PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
(G0008-G9999) 
VACCINE ADMINISTRATION (G0008-G0010) 
1:11 G0008 Administration of influenza virus vaccine 
S 
CP-re Crosswalk: 90460, 90461, 90471, 
90472,90473,90474 
BETOS: 01 G lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q2; 2006, Q2, 2009, 
Q2, 2016, Q4; 2018, Q3 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-12, 40.11; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 10.2.1; 100-4, Chapter-18, 
10.2.5.2; 100-4, Chapter-18, 10.3.1.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 10.4.1; 100-4, Chapter-18, 10.4.3 
1:11 G0009 Administration of pneumococcal vaccine 
S 
CP-re Crosswalk: 90460, 90461, 90471, 
90472,90473,90474 
BETOS: 01 G lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q2; 2009, Q2, 2016, 
Q4; 2018, Q3 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-12, 40.11; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 10.2.1; 100-4, Chapter-18, 
10.2.5.2; 100-4, Chapter-18, 10.3.1.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 10.4.1; 100-4, Chapter-18, 10.4.3 
1:11 G0010 Administration of hepatitis B vaccine 
S 
CP 
Crosswalk: 90460, 90461, 90471, 
90472 
BETOS: 01 G lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q4; 2018, Q3 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-12, 40.11; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 10.2.1; 100-4, Chapter-18, 
10.2.5.2; 100-4, Chapter-18, 10.3.1.1 
PSYCHOTHERAPY, PRE-EXPOSURE PROPHYLAXIS 
COUNSELING AND COMMUNITY HEALTH INTEGRATION 
SERVICES (G0011-G0024) 
• 1:11 G0011 Individual counseling for pre-exposure
prophylaxis (prep) by physician or qualified 
health care professional (qhp )to prevent 
human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), 
includes hiv risk assessment (initial or 
continued assessment of risk), hiv risk 
reduction and medication adherence, 
15-30 minutes
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other
Price established by carriers
• 1:11 G0012 Injection of pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep)
drug for hiv prevention, under skin or into 
muscle 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established by carriers 
• 1:11 G0013 Individual counseling for pre-exposure
prophylaxis (prep) by clinical staff to 
prevent human immunodeficiency virus 
(hiv), includes: hiv risk assessment (initial 
or continued assessment of risk), hiv risk 
reduction and medication adherence 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established by carriers 
G0008-G0019 
• 1:11 G0017 Psychotherapy for crisis furnished in an
applicable site of service (any place of 
service at which the non-facility rate for 
psychotherapy for crisis services applies, 
other than the office setting); first 60 minutes 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
• 1:11 G0018 Psychotherapy for crisis furnished in an
applicable site of service (any place of 
service at which the non-facility rate for 
psychotherapy for crisis services applies, 
other than the office setting); each additional 
30 minutes (list separately in addition to code 
for primary service) 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
• 1:11 G0019 Community health integration services
performed by certified or trained auxiliary 
personnel, including a community health 
worker, under the direction of a physician 
or other practitioner; 60 minutes per 
calendar month, in the following activities 
to address social determinants of health 
(sdoh) need(s) that are significantly limiting 
the ability to diagnose or treat problem(s) 
addressed in an initiating visit: person­
centered assessment, performed to better 
understand the individualized context of the 
intersection between the sdoh need(s) and 
the problem(s) addressed in the initiating 
visit. ++ conducting a person-centered 
assessment to understand patient's life story, 
strengths, needs, goals, preferences and 
desired outcomes, including understanding 
cultural and linguistic factors and including 
unmet sdoh needs (that are not separately 
billed). ++ facilitating patient-driven goal­
setting and establishing an action plan. 
++ providing tailored support to the patient 
as needed to accomplish the practitioner's 
treatment plan. practitioner, home-, and 
community-based care coordination. 
++ coordinating receipt of needed services 
from healthcare practitioners, providers, and 
facilities; and from home- and community­
based service providers, social service 
providers, and caregiver (if applicable). 
++ communication with practitioners, home­
and community-based service providers, 
hospitals, and skilled nursing facilities (or 
other health care facilities) regarding the 
patient's psychosocial srrengths and needs, 
functional deficits, goals, preferences, and 
desired outcomes, including cultural and 
linguistic factors. ++ coordination of care 
transitions between and among health 
care practitioners and settings, including 
transitions involving referral to other 
clinicians; follow-up after an emergency 
department visit; or follow-up after 
discharges from hospitals, skilled nursing 
facilities or other health care facilities. 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
l!ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A - Y = APC Status indicator 
lil!m MIPS code 
CPT" 1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
211 
G0022 - G0027 
++ facilitating access to community-based 
social services (e.g., housing, utilities, 
transportation, food assistance) to address 
the sdoh need(s). health education- helping 
the patient contextualize health education 
provided by the patient's treatment team 
with the patient's individual needs, goals, 
and preferences, in the context of the sdoh 
need(s}, and educating the patient on how 
to best participate in medical decision­
making. building patient self-advocacy 
skills, so that the patient can interact 
with members of the health care team 
and related community-based services 
addressing the sdoh need(s), in ways that 
are more likely to promote personalized 
and effective diagnosis or treatment. health 
care access I health system navigation. 
++ helping the patient access healthcare, 
including identifying appropriate practitioners 
or providers for clinical care and helping 
secure appointments with them. facilitating 
behavioral change as necessary for meeting 
diagnosis and treatment goals, including 
promoting patient motivation to participate in 
care and reach person-centered diagnosis 
or treatment goals. facilitating and providing 
social and emotional support to help the 
patient cope with the problem(s) addressed 
in the initiating visit, the sdoh need(s), 
and adjust daily routines to better meet 
diagnosis and treatment goals. leveraging 
lived experience when applicable to provide 
support, mentorship, or inspiration to meet 
treatment goals 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
• ml G0022 Community health integration services, each
additional 30 minutes per calendar month 
(list separately in addition to G0019) 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
• ml G0023 Principal illness navigation services by
certified or trained auxiliary personnel 
under the direction of a physician or other 
practitioner, including a patient navigator; 
60 minutes per calendar month, in the 
following activities: person-centered 
assessment, performed to better understand 
the individual context of the serious, high­
risk condition. ++ conducting a person­
centered assessment to understand the 
patient's life story, strengths, needs, goals, 
preferences, and desired outcomes, 
including understanding cultural and 
linguistic factors and including unmet sdoh 
needs (that are not separately billed). ++ 
facilitating patient-driven goal setting and 
establishing an action plan. ++ providing 
tailored support as needed to accomplish 
the practitioner's treatment plan. identifying 
or referring patient (and caregiver or family, 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
if applicable) to appropriate supportive 
services. practitioner, home, and community­
based care coordination. ++ coordinating 
receipt of needed services from healthcare 
practitioners, providers, and facilities; home­
and community-based service providers; and 
caregiver (if applicable). ++ communication 
with practitioners, home-, and community­
based service providers, hospitals, and 
skilled nursing facilities (or other health 
care facilities) regarding the patient's 
psychosocial strengths and needs, functional 
deficits, goals, preferences, and desired 
outcomes, including cultural and linguistic 
factors. ++ coordination of care transitions 
between and among health care practitioners 
and settings, including transitions involving 
referral to other clinicians; follow-up after 
an emergency department visit; or follow-
up after discharges from hospitals, skilled 
nursing facilities or other health care 
facilities. ++ facilitating access to com,munity­
based social services (e.g., housing, 
utilities, transportation, likely to promote 
personalized and effective treatment of their 
condition. health care access I health system 
navigation. ++ helping the patient access 
healthcare, including identifying appropriate 
practitioners or providers for clinical care, 
and helping secure appointments with them. 
++ providing the patient with information/ 
resources to consider participation in 
clinical trials or clinical research as 
applicable. facilitating behavioral change 
as necessary for meeting diagnosis and 
treatment goals, including promoting patient 
motivation to prrticipate in care and reach 
person-centered diagnosis or treatment 
goals. facilitating and providing social and 
emotional support to help the patient cope 
with the condition, sdoh need(s), and adjust 
daily routines to better meet diagnosis and 
treatment goals. leverage knowledge of 
the serious, high-risk condition and/or lived 
experience when applicable to provide 
support, mentorship, or inspiration to meet 
treatment goals 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
• ml G0024 Principal illness navigation services,
additional 30 minutes per calendar month 
(list separately in addition to G0023) 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - ottier 
Price established by carriers 
ANALYSIS OF SEMEN SPECIMEN (G0027) 
ml G0027 Semen analysis; presence and/or motility of 
sperm excluding huhner 
d' 04 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule} 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
ml Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Cllnlc 
212 
CPT" Is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
C 
L 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
MIPS MEASURES (G0029-G0067) 
B G0029 Tobacco screening not performed or tobacco 
cessation intervention not provided during 
the measurement period or in the six months 
prior to the measurement period 
M llJiJ 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G0030 Patient screened for tobacco use and 
received tobacco cessation intervention 
during the measurement period or in the 
six months prior to the measurement period 
(counseling, pharmacotherapy, or both), 
if identified as a tobacco user 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0031 Palliative care services given to patient any 
time during the measurement period 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0032 Two or more antipsychotic prescriptions 
ordered for patients who had a diagnosis of 
schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or 
bipolar disorder on or between january 1 of 
the year prior to the measurement period 
and the index prescription start date (ipsd) 
for antipsychotics 
M llJiJ 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0033 Two or more benzodiazepine prescriptions 
ordered for patients who had a diagnosis of 
seizure disorders, rapid eye movement sleep 
behavior disorder, benzodiazepine withdrawal, 
ethanol withdrawal, or severe generalized 
anxiety disorder on or between january 1 of 
the year prior to the measurement period 
and the ipsd for benzodiazepines 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0034 Patients receiving palliative care during 
the measurement period 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0035 Patient has any emergency department 
encounter during the performance period 
with place of service indicator 23 
M llJiJ 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0036 Patient or care partner decline 
assessment 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
M llJiJ 
G0029 - G0046 
B G0037 On date of encounter, patient is not able 
to participate in assessment or screening, 
including non-verbal patients, delirious, 
severely aphasic, severely developmentally 
delayed, severe visual or hearing impairment 
and for those patients, no knowledgeable 
informant available 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0038 Clinician determines patient does not require 
referral 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0039 Patient not referred, reason not otherwise 
specified 
M llJiJ 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0040 Patient already receiving physical/ 
occupational/speech/recreationahherapy 
during the measurement period 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0041 Patient and/or care partner decline 
referral 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub; 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0042 Referral to physical, occupational, speech, 
or recreational therapy 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0043 Patients with mechanical prosthetic 
heart valve 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0044 Patients with moderate or severe mitral 
M llJiJ 
stenosis 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0045 Clinical follow-up and mrs score assessed 
at 90 days following endovascular stroke 
intervention 
M !l;m 
BETOS: 22 Undefinectcodes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
B G0046 Clinical follow-up and mrs score not 
assessed at 90 days following endovascular 
stroke intervention 
M llJiJ 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
d' Male only 
f?. Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 • Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
llJiJ MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
213 
G0047 - G0070 
ri G0047 Pediatric patient with minor blunt head 
trauma and pecarn prediction criteria 
are not assessed 
M l1JliJ 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
ri G0048 Patients who receive palliative care services 
any time during the intake period through 
the end of the measurement year 
M cm 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0049 With maintenance hemodialysis (in-center 
and home hd) for the complete reporting 
month 
Mcm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0050 Patients with a catheter that have limited life 
expectancy 
M l1JliJ 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0051 Patients under hospice care in the current 
reporting month 
M l1JliJ 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0052 Patients on peritoneal dialysis for any 
portion of the reporting month 
M cm 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0053 Advancing rheumatology patient care mips 
value pathways 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0054 Coordinating stroke care to promote 
prevention and cultivate positive outcomes 
mips value pathways 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0055 Advancing care for heart disease MIPS 
value pathways 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0057 Proposed adopting best practices and 
promoting patient safety within emergency 
medicine mips value pathways 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0058 Improving care for lower extremity 
joint repair mips value pathways 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0059 Patient safety and support of positive 
experiences with anesthesia mips value 
pathways 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
ri G0060 Allergy/immunology mips specialty set 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0061 Anesthesiology mips specialty set 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0062 Audiology mips specialty set 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0063 Cardiology mips specialty set 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M 
M 
M 
M 
ri G0064 Certified nurse midwife mips specialty set M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0065 Chiropractic medicine mips specialty set 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0066 Clinical social work mips specialty s§ 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri G0067 Dentistry mips specialty set 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES FOR DRUG INFUSION 
(G0068-G0070) 
M 
M 
M 
DJ G0068 Professional services for the administration 
of anti-infective, pain management, 
chelation, pulmonary hypertension, inotropic, 
or other intravenous infusion drug or 
biological (excluding chemotherapy or other 
highly complex drug or biological) for each 
infusion drug administration calendar day in 
the individual's home, each 15 minutes 
A 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established using national RVUs 
DJ G0069 Professional services for the administration 
of subcutaneous immunotherapy or other 
subcutaneous infusion drug or biological 
for each infusion drug administration 
calendar day in the individual's home, 
each 15 minutes 
A 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established using national RVUs 
DJ G0070 Professional services for the administration 
of intravenous chemother:,apy or other 
intravenous highly complex drug or biological 
infusion for each infusion drug administration 
calendar day in the individual's home, 
each 15 minutes 
A 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established using national RVUs 
• Newcode
.. Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT-is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
(_ 
L 
L 
L 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
TELEMED SERVICES (G0071) 
B G0071 Payment for communication technology­
based services for 5 minutes or more of a 
virtual (non-face-to-face) communication 
between an rural health clinic (rhc) or 
federally qualified health center (fqhc) 
practitioner and rhc or fqhc patient, or 
5 minutes or more of remote evaluation of 
recorded video and/or images by an rhc 
or fqhc practitioner, occurring in lieu of an 
office visit; rhc or fqhc only 
A 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
HOME CARE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (G0076-G0087) 
B G0076 Brief (20 minutes) care management home 
visit for a new patient. for use only in a 
Medicare-approved cmmi model. (services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted 
living and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0077 Limited (30 minutes) care management 
home visit for a new patient. for use only in 
a Medicare-approved cmmi model. (services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted 
living and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0078 Moderate (45 minutes) care management 
home visit for a new patient. for use only in 
a Medicare-approved cmmi model. (services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted 
living and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0079 Comprehensive (60 minutes) care 
management home visit for a new patient. 
for use only in a Medicare-approved cmmi 
model. (services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0080 Extensive (75 minutes) care management 
home visit for a new patient. for use only in 
a Medicare-approved cmmi model. (services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted living 
and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
G0071 -G0087 
B G0081 Brief (20 minutes) care management home 
visit for an existing patient. for use only in a 
Medicare-approved cmmi model. (services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted 
living and/or nursing facility) 
8 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0082 Limited (30 minutes) care management 
home visit for an existing patient. for use 
only in a Medicare-approved cmmi model. 
(services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0083 Moderate (45 minutes) care management 
home visit for an existing patient. for use 
only in a Medicare-approved cmmi model. 
(services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit
Price established by carriers 
B G0084 Comprehensive (60 minutes) care 
management home visit for an existing 
patient. for use only in a Medicare-approved 
cmmi model. (services must be furnished 
within a beneficiary's home, domiciliary, 
rest home, assisted living and/or nursing 
facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0085 Extensive (75 minutes) care management 
home visit for an existing patient. for use 
only in a Medicare-approved cmmi model. 
(services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0086 Limited (30 minutes) care management 
home care plan oversight. for use only in a 
Medicare-approved cmmi model. (services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted living 
and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0087 Comprehensive (60 minutes) care 
management home care-plan oversight. 
for use only in a Medicare-approved cmmi 
model. (services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit
Price established by carriers 
" Male only 
Female only 
0 Age 
A2- 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
A Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
E1J1 Paid under the DME fee schedule 
lmt) MIPS code 
CPT9 1s a registered trademark of the Amencon Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
215 
G0088 - G0118 
INITIAL VISIT FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES (G0088-G0090) 
l!J G0088 Professional services, initial visit, for 
the administration of anti-infective, pain 
management, chelation, pulmonary 
hypertension, inotropic, or other intravenous 
infusion drug or biological (excluding 
chemotherapy or other highly complex 
drug or biological) for each infusion 
drug administration calendar day in the 
individual's home, each 15 minutes 
A 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established using national RVUs 
l!J G0089 Professional services, initial visit, for 
the administration of subcutaneous 
immunotherapy or other subcutaneous 
infusion drug or biological for each infusion 
drug administration calendar day in the 
individual's home, each 15 minutes 
A 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established using national RVUs 
l!J G0090 Professional services, initial visit, 
for the administration of intravenous 
chemotherapy or other highly complex 
infusion drug or biological for each infusion 
drug administration calendar day in the 
individual's home, each 15 minutes 
A 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established using national RVUs 
SCREENING EXAMINATIONS AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT 
TRAINING (G0101-G0124) 
l!J G0101 Cervical or vaginal cancer screening; pelvic 
and clinical breast examination 
Ï S r;mJ 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99384, 99385, 99386, 
99387,99394,99395,99396, 99397,99459 
BETOS: M1A Office visits - new 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3; 2002, Q4; 2008, Q3 
l!J G0102 Prostate cancer screening; digital rectal 
examination 
d" N r;mJ 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99384, 99385, 99386, 
99387,99394,99395,99396,99397 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
l!J G0103 Prostate cancer screening; prostate 
specific antigen test (PSA) 
A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 81539, 81541, 81551, 
84152,84153,84154,86316,0005U, 
0011M, 0021U, 0047U, 0359U, 0421T, 
0443T 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
l!J G0104 Colorectal cancer screening; flexible 
sigmoidoscopy 
P3 ASC T 
CPT® Crosswalk: 45330, 45331, 45332, 
45333,45334,45335,45337,45338,45340, 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
45341,45342,45346,45347,45349,45350 
BETOS: P8C Endoscopy - sigmoidoscopy 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2; 2011, Q2 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-1, 30.3.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 60.1 
l!J G0105 Colorectal cancer screening; colonoscopy 
on individual at high risk 
A2 ASC T t:m 
CP 
Crosswalk: 44404, 44408, 45378 
BETOS: P8D Endoscopy - colonoscopy 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2; 2018, Q2, 2023, 
Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-1, 30.3.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 60.1 
l!J G0106 Colorectal cancer screening; alternative to 
G0104, screening sigmoidoscopy, barium 
enema 
S r;mJ 
BETOS: 11D Standard imaging - contrast 
gastrointestinal 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 02 2011 Q2 ' 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 60.1 
B G0108 Diabetes outpatient self-management 
training services, individual, 
per 30 minutes 
A r;mJ 
CP 
Crosswalk: 98960 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-15, 300.3; 100-4, 
Chapter-12. 190.3.6 
B G0109 Diabetes outpatient self-management 
training services, group session (2 or more), 
per 30 minutes 
A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 98961, 98962 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-15, 300.3; 100-4, 
Chapter-12, 190.3.6 
B G0117 Glaucoma screening for high risk 
patients furnished by an optometrist or 
ophthalmologist 
S 
CP 
Crosswalk: 92285, 0333T, 0464T 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3, 2002, Q1; 2002, 
Q1 
B G0118 Glaucoma screening for high_risk patient 
furnished under the direct supervision of 
an optometrist or ophthalmologist 
S 
CP 
Crosswalk: 92285, 0333T, 0464T 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3, 2002. Q1, 2002, 
Q1 
• Newcode
.& Revised code 
II Carrier judgment 
eJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
216 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
L 
r L, 
L 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
l:J G0120 Colorectal cancer screening; alternative 
to G0105, screening colonoscopy, 
barium enema. 
S tml 
CPT® Crosswalk: 45330, 45378, 45990, 
91299 
BETOS: 11 D Standard imaging - contrast 
gastrointestinal 
Price established using national RVUs 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 60.1 
l:J G0121 Colorectal cancer screening; colonoscopy 
on individual not meeting criteria for 
high risk 
A2 ASC T cm 
CPT® Crosswalk: 44404, 44408, 45330, 
45378,91299 
BETOS: 11 D Standard imaging - contrast 
gastrointestinal 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 03; 2018, Q2, 2023, Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-1, 30.3.1 
£ii G0122 Colorectal cancer screening; 
barium enema 
E1 tml 
CPT® Crosswalk: 45330, 45378, 45990, 
74270,91299 
BETOS: 11 D Standard imaging - contrast 
gastrointestinal 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J G0123 Screening cytopathology, cervical or 
vaginal (any reporting system), collected 
in preservative fluid, automated thin layer 
preparation, screening by cytotechnologist 
under physician supervision 
ff A 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
l:J G0124 Screening cytopathology, cervical or 
vaginal (any reporting system), collected 
in preservative fluid, automated thin layer 
preparation, requiring interpretation by 
physician 
5?- B 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99000 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
MISCELLANEOUS DIAGNOSTIC AND THERAPEUTIC 
SERVICES (G0127-G0372) 
l:J G0127 Trimming of dystrophic nails, 
any number 
Q1 tml 
BETOS: PSA Ambulatory procedures - skin 
Price established using national RVUs 
l:J G0128 Direct (face-to-face with patient) skilled 
nursing services of a registered nurse 
provided in a comprehensive outpatient 
rehabilitation facility, each 10 minutes 
beyond the first 5 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Value not established 
Statute: 1833(a) 
G0120 - G0137 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-12, 40.8; 100-4, 
Chapter-5, 20.4 
& Ii G0129 Occupational therapy services requiring the 
skills of a qualified occupational therapist, 
furnished as a component of a partial 
hospitalization or intensive outpatient 
treatment program, per session 
(45 minutes or more) 
P 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 04 
l:J G0130 Single energy X-ray absorptiometry 
(SEXA) bone density study, one or more 
sites; appendicular skeleton (peripheral) 
(e.g., radius, wrist, heel) 
23 ASC S 
BETOS: 148 Imaging/procedure - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
• Ii G0136 Administration of a standardized, evidence­
based social determinants of health risk 
assessment tool, 5-15 minutes' 
BETOS: MS□ Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
• Ii G0137 Intensive outpatient services; weekly
bundle, minimum of 9 services over a 7 
contiguous day period, which can include 
individual and group therapy with physicians 
or psychologists (or other mental health 
professionals to the extent authorized under 
state law); occupational therapy requiring the 
skills of a qualified occupational therapist; 
services of social workers, trained psychiatric 
nurses, and other staff trained to work with 
psychiatric patients; individualized activity 
therapies that are not primarily recreational 
or diversionary; family counseling (the 
primary purpose of which is treatment of 
the individual's condition); patient training 
and education (to the extent that training 
and educational activities are closely and 
clearly related to individual's care and 
treatment); diagnostic services; and such 
other items and services (excluding meals 
and transportation) that are reasonable 
and necessary for the diagnosis or active 
treatment of the individual's condition, 
reasonably expected to improve or maintain 
the individual's condition and functional level 
and to prevent relapse or hospitalization, 
and furnished pursuant to such guidelines 
relating to frequency and duration of 
services in accordance with a physician 
certification and plan of treatment (provision 
of the services by a Medicare-enrolled 
opioid treatment program); list separately in 
addition to code for primary procedure 
BETOS: MS□ Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
• Male only
!? Female only 
() Age 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y ; APC Status indicator
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
cm MIPS code 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
217 
G0140-G0148 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
218 
• 1:1 G0140 Principal illness navigation - peer support
by certified or trained auxiliary personnel 
under the direction of a physician or other 
practitioner, including a certified peer 
specialist; 60 minutes per calendar month, 
in the following activities: person-centered 
interview, performed to better understand the 
individual context of the serious, high-risk 
condition. ++ conducting a person-centered 
interview to understand the patient's life 
story, strengths, needs, goals, preferences, 
and desired outcomes, including 
understanding cultural and linguistic factors, 
and including unmet sdoh needs (that are 
not billed separately). ++ facilitating patient­
driven goal setting and establishing an 
action plan. ++ providing tailored support as 
needed to accomplish the person-centered 
goals in the practitioner's treatment plan. 
identifying or referring patient (and caregiver 
or family, if applicable) to appropriate 
supportive services. practitioner, home, and 
community-based care communication. 
++ assist the patient in communicating with 
their practitioners, home-, and community­
based service providers, hospitals, and 
skilled nursing facilities (or other health 
care facilities) regarding the patient's 
psychosocial strengths and needs, goals, 
preferences, and desired outcomes, 
including cultural and linguistic factors. 
++ facilitating access to community-based 
social services (e.g., housing, utilities, 
transportation, food assistance) as needed 
to address sdoh need(s). health education. 
helping the patient contextualize health 
education provided by the patient's treatment 
team with the patient's individual needs, 
goals, preferences, and sdoh need(s), 
and educating the patient (and caregiver 
if applicable) on how to best participate in 
medical decision-making. building patient 
self-advocacy skills, so that the patient 
can interact with members of the health 
care team and related community-based 
services (as needed), in ways that are more 
likely to promote personalized and effective 
treatment of their condition. developing and 
proposing strategies to help meet person­
centered treatment goals and supporting the 
patient in using chosen strategies to reach 
person-centered treatment goals. facilitating 
and providing social and emotional support 
to help the patient cope with the condition, 
sdoh need(s), and adjust daily routines 
to better meet person-centered diagnosis 
and treatment goals. leverage knowledge 
of the serious, high-risk condition and/or 
lived experience when applicable to provide 
support, mentorship, or inspiration to meet 
treatment goals 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
1:1 G0141 Screening cytopathology smears, cervical 
or vaginal, performed by automated 
system, with manual rescreening, requiring 
interpretation by physician 
Jil. B 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99000 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
1:1 G0143 Screening cytopathology, cervical or 
vaginal (any reporting system), collected 
in preservative fluid, automated thin layer 
preparation, with manual screening and 
rescreening by cytotechnologist under 
physician supervision 
Jil. A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99000 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
1:1 G0144 Screening cytopathology, cervical or 
vaginal (any reporting system), collected 
in preservative fluid, automated thin layer 
preparation, with screening by autom.}ted 
system, under physician supervision 
-9 A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99000 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
1:1 G0145 Screening cytopathology, cervical or 
vaginal (any reporting system), collected 
in preservative fluid, automated thin layer 
preparation, with screening by automated 
system and manual rescreening under 
physician supervision 
!jl A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 88141, 88142, 88143, 
88147,88148,88150,88152,88153,88155, 
88160,88161,88162,88164,88165,88166, 
88167,88172,88173,88174,88175,88177, 
88199 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
• 1:1 G0146 Principal illness navigation - peer support,
additional 30 minutes per calendar month 
(list separately in addition to G0140) 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
1:1 G0147 Screening cytopathology smears, cervical 
or vaginal, performed by automated system 
under physician supervision 
? A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99000 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subJect to national limitation amount 
1:1 G0148 Screening cytopathology smears, cervical 
or vaginal, performed by automated system 
with manual rescreening 
i A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99000 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
I:) Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
L 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
ii G0151 Services performed by a qualified physical 
therapist in the home health or hospice 
setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0152 Services performed by a qualified 
occupational therapist in the home health or 
hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0153 Services performed by a qualified speech­
language pathologist in the home health or 
hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0155 Services of clinical social worker 
in home health or hospice settings, each 
15 minutes 
B llJllt1 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0156 Services of home health/hospice aide in 
home health or hospice settings, each 
15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0157 Services performed by a qualified physical 
therapist assistant in the home health or 
hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0158 Services performed by a qualified 
occupational therapist assistant in the home 
health or hospice setting, each 15 minutes B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0159 Services performed by a qualified physical 
therapist, in the home health setting, in 
the establishment or delivery of a safe and 
effective physical therapy maintenance 
program, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0160 Services performed by a qualified 
occupational therapist, in the home health 
setting, in the establishment or delivery of 
a safe and effective occupational therapy 
maintenance program, each 15 minutes 
B 
G0151 -G0177 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0161 Services performed by a qualified speech­
language pathologist, in the home health 
setting, in the establishment or delivery 
of a safe and effective speech-language 
pathology maintenance program, 
each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ii G0162 Skilled services by a registered nurse (RN) 
for management and evaluation of the plan 
of care; each 15 minutes (the patient's 
underlying condition or complication requires 
an RN to ensure that essential non-skilled 
care achieves its purpose in the home health 
or hospice setting) 
B lilm 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J G0166 External counterpulsation, per treatment 
session 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 130.1 
ii G0168 Wound closure utilizing tissue adhesive(s) 
01 
ooÄ 
B 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q4; 2001 Q3, 2005. Q1 
ii G0175 Scheduled interdisciplinary team conference 
(minimum of three exclusive of patient care 
nursing staff) with patient present 
V 
BETOS: M6 Consultations 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q3; 2006 04 
l!J G0176 Activity therapy, such as music, dance, art or 
play therapies not for recreation, related to 
the care and treatment of patient's disabling 
mental health problems, per session 
(45 minutes or more) 
P llJllt1 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4 
l!J G0177 Training and educationaf.services related 
to the care and treatment of patient's 
disabling mental health problems per session 
(45 minutes or more) 
N llJllt1 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2012. Q4 
d" Male only 
lf Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Ii.ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y -APC Status indicator
llJllt1 MIPScode
CPT" 1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
219 
G0179 - G0245 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
220 
Ii G0179 Physician or allowed practitioner re­
certification for Medicare-covered home 
health services under a home health plan of 
care (patient not present), including contacts 
with home health agency and review of 
reports of patient status 
required by physicians and allowed 
practitioners to affirm the initial 
implementation of the plan of care 
M 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Ii G0180 Physician or allowed practitioner certification 
for Medicare-covered home health services 
under a home health plan of care (patient 
not present), including contacts with home 
health agency and review of reports of 
patient status required by physicians and 
allowed practitioners to affirm the initial 
implementation of the plan of care 
M 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Ii G0181 Physician or allowed practitioner supervision 
of a patient receiving Medicare-covered 
services provided by a participating home 
health agency (patient not present) requiring 
complex and multidisciplinary care modalities 
involving regular physician or allowed 
practitioner development and/or revision of 
care plans 
M 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Ii G0182 Physician supervision of a patient under 
a Medicare-approved hospice (patient 
not present) requiring complex and 
multidisciplinary care modalities involving 
regular physician development and/or 
revision of care plans, review of subsequent 
reports of patient status, review of laboratory 
and other studies, communication (including 
telephone calls) with other health care 
professionals involved in the patient's care, 
integration of new information into the 
medical treatment plan and/or adjustment 
of medical therapy, within a calendar month, 
30 minutes or more 
M 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Pnce established using national RVUs 
Ii G0186 Destruction of localized lesion of choroid 
(for example, choroidal neovascularization); 
photocoagulation, feeder vessel technique 
(one or more sessions) 
R2 ASC T 
BETOS: P4D Eye procedure - treatment of 
retinal lesions 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
£1 G0219 PET imaging whole body; melanoma for non-
covered indications 
E1 
CP 
Crosswalk: 78813, 78816 
BETOS: 14B Imaging/procedure - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2001, 02; 2002, 01 2002, 
01, 2007, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
li'!il G0235 PET imaging, any site, not otherwise 
specified 
22 ASC S 
CPT®Crosswalk:78811, 78812, 78813, 
78814 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.14; 100-4, 
Chapter-13, 60.3 
Ii G0237 Therapeutic procedures to increase strength 
or endurance of respiratory muscles, face to 
face, one on one, each 15 minutes (includes 
monitoring) 
S 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-12, 40.5; 100-4, 
Chapter-5, 20 
, 
Ii G0238 Therapeutic procedures to improve 
respiratory function, other than described 
by G0237, one on one, face to face, per 
15 minutes (includes monitoring) 
S 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-12, 40.5; 100-4, 
Chapter-5, 20 
Ii G0239 Therapeutic procedures to improve 
respiratory function or increase strength or 
endurance of respiratory muscles, two or 
more individuals (includes monitoring) 
S 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures • other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-5, 20; 100-2, Chapter-12, 
40.5 
l!J G0245 Initial physician evaluation and management 
of a diabetic patient with diabetic sensory 
neuropathy resulting in a loss of protective 
sensation (LOPS) which must include: (1) 
the diagnosis of LOPS, (2) a patient history, 
(3) a physical examination that consists of 
at least the following elements: (a) visual
inspection of the forefoot, hindfoot and toe
web spaces, (b) evaluation of a protective
sensation, (c) evaluation of foot structure
and biomechanics, (d) evaluation of vascular
status and skin integrity, and (e) evaluation
and recommendation of footwear and (4)
patient education 
V 
BETOS: M1A Office visits - new 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q4: 2002, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 80.2; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 80.8 
• Newcode 
& Revised code 
Ii Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Associat10n. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
l:J G0246 Follow-up physician evaluation and 
management of a diabetic patient with 
diabetic sensory neuropathy resulting in 
a loss of protective sensation (LOPS) to 
include at least the following: (1) a patient 
history, (2) a physical examination that 
includes: (a) visual inspection of the forefoot, 
hindfoot and toe web spaces, (b) evaluation 
of protective sensation, (c) evaluation of foot 
structure and biomechanics, (d) evaluation 
of vascular status and skin integrity, and (e) 
evaluation and recommendation of 
footwear, and (3) patient education 
V 
BETOS: M1B Office visits - established 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 80.2; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 80.8 
l:J G0247 Routine foot care by a physician of a diabetic 
patient with diabetic sensory neuropathy 
resulting in a loss of protective sensation 
(LOPS) to include, the local care of 
superficial wounds (i.e. superficial to muscle 
and fascia) and at least the following if 
present: (1) local care of superficial wounds, 
(2) debridement of corns and calluses, and
(3) trimming and debridement of nails
01 
BETOS: M1 B Office visits - established
Price established using national RVUs
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 80.2, 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 80.8 
l:J G0248 Demonstration, prior to initiation of home 
INR monitoring, for patient with either 
mechanical heart valve(s), chronic atrial 
fibrillation, or venous thromboembolism who 
meets Medicare coverage criteria, under the 
direction of a physician; includes: face-to­
face demonstration of use and care of the 
INR monitor, obtaining at least one blood 
sample, provision of instructions for reporting 
home INR test results, and documentation of 
patient's ability to perform testing and report 
results 
V 
BETOS: M1A Office visits - new 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04 
l:J G0249 Provision of test materials and equipment for 
home INR monitoring of patient with either 
mechanical heart valve(s), chronic atrial 
fibrillation, or venous thromboembolism who 
meets Medicare coverage criteria; includes: 
provision of materials for use in the home 
and reporting of test results to physician; 
testing not occurring more frequently than 
once a week; testing materials, billing units 
of service include 4 tests 
V 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04 
G0246 - G0268 
l:J G0250 Physician review, interpretation, and patient 
management of home INR testing for patient 
with either mechanical heart valve(s), chronic 
atrial fibrillation, or venous thromboembolism 
who meets Medicare coverage criteria; 
testing not occurring more frequently than 
once a week; billing units of service 
include 4 tests 
M 
BETOS: M1 B Office visits - established 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04; 2002, 03 
m G0252 PET imaging, full and partial-ring PET 
scanners only, for initial diagnosis of breast 
cancer and/or surgical planning for breast 
cancer (e.g., initial staging of axillary lymph 
nodes) 
E1 
CPT® Crosswalk: 78811, 78812, 78813, 
0422T 
BETOS: 12D Advanced imaging - MRI/MRA:
other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04; 2006, oi: 2007, 01
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
m G0255 Current perception threshold/sensory nerve 
conduction test, (SNCT) per limb, 
any nerve 
E1 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04 
l:J G0257 Unscheduled or emergency dialysis 
treatment for an ESRD patient in a hospital 
outpatient department that is not certified 
as an ESRD facility 
S 
BETOS: P6D Minor procedures - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by PartB 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04, 2003, 01; 2014. 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.2 
l:J G0259 Injection procedure for sacroiliac joint; 
arthrography 
N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04 
l:J G0260 Injection procedure for sacroiliac joint; 
provision of anesthetic, steroid and/or 
other therapeutic agent, with or without 
arthrography 
A2. ASC T 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 04; 2021, 04 
l!I G0268 Removal of impacted ce-rumen (one or both 
ears) by physician on same date of service 
as audiologic function testing 
N 
CP 
Crosswalk: 69209, 69210 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2003, 01; 2016, Q2 
d' Male only 
â Female only 
0 Age 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
EIDI Paid under the DME fee schedule 
ã MIPS code 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
221 
G0269 - G0294 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
222 
l!J G0269 Placement of occlusive device into either a 
venous or arterial access site, post surgical 
or interventional procedure (e.g., angioseal 
plug, vascular plug) 
N 
CP 
Crosswalk: 34808 
BETOS: P6D Minor procedures - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2010, 04· 2012, 04. 2022 
03 
ml G0270 Medical nutrition therapy; reassessment and 
subsequent intervention(s) following second 
referral in same year for change in diagnosis, 
medical condition or treatment regimen 
(including additional hours needed for renal 
disease), individual, face to face with the 
patient, each 15 minutes 
A CJm 
CPT® Crosswalk: 97802, 97803 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
ml G0271 Medical nutrition therapy, reassessment and 
subsequent intervention(s) following second 
referral in same year for change in diagnosis, 
medical condition, or treatment regimen 
(including additional hours needed for renal 
disease), group (2 or more individuals), 
each 30 (llinutes 
A £lm 
CPT® Crosswalk: 97804 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
l!J G0276 Blinded procedure for lumbar stenosis, 
percutaneous image-guided lumbar 
decompression (PILD) or placebo-control, 
performed in an approved coverage 
with evidence development (CED) 
clinical trial 
G2 ASC J1 
BETOS: P6D Minor procedures - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
l!J G0277 Hyperbaric oxygen under pressure, full body 
chamber, per 30 minute interval 
S 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established by earners 
ml G0278 Iliac and/or femoral artery angiography, non­
selective, bilateral or ipsilateral to catheter 
insertion, performed at the same time as 
cardiac catheterization and/or coronary 
angiography, includes positioning or 
placement of the catheter in the distal aorta 
or ipsilateral femoral or iliac artery, injection 
of dye, production of permanent images, 
and radiologic supervision and interpretation 
(list separately in addition to primary 
procedure) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: I4A Imaging/procedure - heart 
including cardiac catheterization 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2006 04 
ml G0279 Diagnostic digital breast tomosynthesis, 
unilateral or bilateral (list separately in 
addition to 77065 or 77066) 
 A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 77061, 77062, 0422T 
BETOS: I1C Standard imaging - breast 
Price established by carriers 
ml G0281 Electrical stimulation, (unattended), to one 
or more areas, for chronic Stage Ill and 
Stage IV pressure ulcers, arterial ulcers, 
diabetic ulcers, and venous statsis ulcers not 
demonstrating measurable signs of healing 
after 30 days of conventional care, as part of 
a therapy plan of care 
A 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2003, 02; 2003, 01 
m G0282 Electrical stimulation, (unattended), to one 
or more areas, for wound care other than 
described in G0281 
E1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Service not separately priced by Part  
Coding Clinic: 2003 02: 2003 01 
ml G0283 Electrical stimulation (unattended), 
to one or more areas for indication(s) other 
than wound care, as part of a therapy plan 
care 
A 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2003, 02; 2003, 01; 2009, 
02 
ml G0288 Reconstruction, computed tomographic 
angiography of aorta for surgical planning 
for vascular surgery 
N 
BETOS: 128 
Advanced imaging - CAT/CT/ 
CTA: other 
Price established using national RVUs 
ml G0289 Arthroscopy, knee, surgical, for removal 
of loose body, foreign body, debridemen!/ 
shaving of articular cartilage (chondroplasty) 
at the time of other surgical knee arthroscopy 
in a different compartment of the same 
knee 
N 
BETOS: PBA Endoscopy - arthroscopy 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2003, 02; 2011, 02; 2011, 
02; 2020, 04 
l!J G0293 Noncovered surgical procedure(s) using 
conscious sedation, regional, general or 
spinal anesthesia in a Medicare qualifying 
clinical trial, per day 
01 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002 04 
l!J G0294 Noncovered procedure(s) using either no 
anesthesia or local anesthesia only, in a 
Medicare qualifying clinical trial, per day 
01 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
El Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
C 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q4 
El G0295 Electromagnetic therapy, to one or more 
areas, for wound care other than described 
in G0329 or for other uses 
E1 
BETOS: I2B Advanced imaging - CAT/CT/ 
CTA: other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q1 
l!:I G0296 Counseling visit to discuss need for lung 
cancer screening using low dose ct scan 
(ldct) (service is for eligibility determination 
and shared decision making) 
S 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99401 
BETOS: M6 Consultations 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 2019, Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3 
l!:I G0299 Direct skilled nursing services of a registered 
nurse (RN) in the home health or hospice 
setting, each 15 minutes 
B cm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q4; 2006, Q2; 2008, Q2 
l!:I G0300 Direct skilled nursing services of a licensed 
practical nurse (LPN) in the home health or 
hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B cm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q4; 2007, Q1; 2008, Q2 
l!:I G0302 Pre-operative pulmonary surgery services 
for preparation for LVRS, complete course of 
services, to include a minimum of 16 days of 
services 
S 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!:I G0303 Pre-operative pulmonary surgery services 
for preparation for LVRS, 10 to 15 days of 
services 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!:I G0304 Pre-operative pulmonary surgery 
services for preparation for LVRS, 1 to 
s 
9 days of services 
S 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!:I G0305 Post-discharge pulmonary surgery services 
after LVRS, minimum of 6 days of services S 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!:I G0306 Complete CBC, automated (HgB, HCT, RBC, 
WBC, without platelet count) and automated 
WBC differential count 
04 
BETOS: T1 D Lab tests - blood counts 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
G0295 - G0315 
l!:I G0307 Complete (CBC), automated (HgB, HCT, 
RBC, WBC; without platelet count) 
Q4 
BETOS: T1 D Lab tests - blood counts 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
D G0310 Immunization counseling by a physician or 
other qualified health care professional when 
the vaccine(s) is not administered on the 
same date of service, 5 to 15 mins lime 
(this code is used for medicaid billing 
purposes) 
E1 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2022, Q4 
D G0311 Immunization counseling by a physician or 
other qualified health care professional when 
the vaccine(s) is not administered on the 
same date of service, 16-30 mins lime 
(this code is used for medicaid billing 
purposes) 
E1 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2022, 04 
D G0312 Immunization counseling by a physician or 
other qualified health care professional when 
the vaccine(s) is not administered on the 
same date of service for ages under 21, 
5 to 15 mins lime (this code is used for 
medicaid billing purposes) 
O E1 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4, 2022, Q4 
D G0313 Immunization counseling by a physician 
or other qualified health care professional 
when the vaccine(s) is not administered on 
the same date of service for ages under 
21, 16-30 mins time (this code is used for 
medicaid billing purposes) 
O E1 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2022, Q4 
D G0314 Immunization counseling by a physician or 
other qualified health care professional for 
covid-19, ages under 21, 16-30 mins lime 
(this code is used for the medicaid early and 
periodic screening, diagnostic, and treatment 
benefit (epsdt) 
O E1 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4, 2022, Q4 
D G0315 Immunization counseling by a physician or 
other qualified health care professional for 
covid-19, ages under 21, 5-15 mins lime 
(this code is used for the medicaid early and 
periodic screening, diagnostic, and treatment 
benefit (epsdt) 
O E1 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2022, Q4 
Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
cm MIPS code 
CPT" 1s a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
223 
G0316 - G0329 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
224 
B G0316 Prolonged hospital inpatient or observation 
care evaluation and management service(s) 
beyond the total time for the primary 
service (when the primary service has 
been selected using time on the date of the 
primary service); each additional 15 minutes 
by the physician or qualified healthcare 
professional, with or without direct patient 
contact (list separately in addition to CPT® 
codes 99223, 99233, and 99236 for hospital 
inpatient or observation care evaluation 
and management services). (do not report 
G0316 on the same date of service as 
other prolonged services for evaluation and 
management 99358, 99359, 99418, 99415, 
99416). (do not report G0316 for any time 
unit less than 15 minutes) 
N 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2023, Q1 
B G0317 Prolonged nursing facility evaluation and 
management service(s) beyond the total time 
for the primary service (when the primary 
service has been selected using time on the 
date of the primary service); each additional 
15 minutes by the physician or qualified 
healthcare professional, with or without direct 
patient contact (list separately in addition to 
CPT® codes 99306, 99310 for nursing facility 
evaluation and management services). 
(do not report G0317 on the same date 
of service as other prolonged services for 
evaluation and management 99358, 99359, 
99418). (do not report G0317 for any time 
unit less than 15 minutes) 
B 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B G0318 Prolonged home or residence evaluation and 
management service(s) beyond the total time 
for the primary service (when the primary 
service has been selected using time on the 
date of the primary service); each additional 
15 minutes by the physician or qualified 
healthcare professional, with or without direct 
patient contact (list separately in addition 
to CPT® codes 99345, 99350 for home or 
residence evaluation and management 
services). (do not report G0318 on the same 
date of service as other prolonged services 
for evaluation and management 99358, 
99359, 99417). (do not report G0318 for any 
time unit less than 15 minutes) 
B 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B G0320 Home health services furnished using 
synchronous telemedicine rendered via 
a real-time two-way audio and video 
telecommunications system 
A 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4, 2023, Q1 
B G0321 Home health services furnished using 
synchronous telemedicine rendered via 
telephone or other real-time interactive 
audio-only telecommunications system 
A 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4, 2023, Q1 
B G0322 The collection of physiologic data digitally 
stored and/or transmitted by the patient to 
the home health agency (i.e., remote patient 
monitoring) 
A 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4, 2023, Q1 
B G0323 Care management services for behavioral 
health conditions, at least 20 minutes 
of clinical psychologist or clinical social 
worker time, per calendar month. (these 
services include the following required 
elements: initial assessment or follow-Llp 
monitoring, including the use of applicable 
validated rating scales; behavioral health 
care planning in relation to behavioral/ 
psychiatric health problems, including 
revision for patients who are not progressing 
or whose status changes; facilitating 
and coordinating treatment such as 
psychotherapy, coordination with and/or 
referral to physicians and practitioners who 
are authorized by Medicare to prescribe 
medications and furnish elm services, 
counseling and/or psychiatric consultation; 
and continuity of care with a designated 
member of the care team) 
S 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
l!J G0327 Colorectal cancer screening; blood-based 
biomarker 
A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 81327 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4, 2021, Q3, 2021, 
Q3 
l!J G0328 Colorectal cancer screening; fecal 
occult blood test, immunoassay, 
1-3 simultaneous
A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 81327, 82270, 82274 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q2; 2023, Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 60.1 
B G0329 Electromagnetic therapy, to one or more 
areas for chronic Stage Ill and Stage IV 
pressure ulcers, arterial ulcers, diabetic 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
1:1 Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" ,s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
ulcers and venous stasis ulcers not 
demonstrating measurable signs of healing 
after 30 days of conventional care as part of 
a therapy plan of care 
A 
BETOS: I2B Advanced imaging - CAT/CT/ 
CTA: other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m G0330 Facility services for dental rehabilitation 
procedure(s) performed on a patient who 
requires monitored anesthesia (e.g., general, 
intravenous sedation (monitored anesthesia 
care) and use of an operating room 
s 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
m G0333 Pharmacy dispensing fee for inhalation 
drug(s); initial 30-day supply as a 
beneficiary 
M 
BETOS: D1 E Other □ME 
B G0337 Hospice evaluation and counseling services, 
pre-election 
B 
BETOS: MS□ Specialist - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
B. 90339 Image-guided robotic linear accelerator­
based stereotactic radiosurgery, complete 
course of therapy in one session or first 
session of fractionated treatment 
B 
CPT® Crosswalk: 61796, 61797, 61798, 
61799,63620,63621, 77372 
BETOS: PSE Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 01 
B G0340 Image-guided robotic linear accelerator­
based stereotactic radiosurgery, delivery 
including collimator changes and custom 
plugging, fractionated treatment, all lesions, 
per session, second through fifth sessions, 
maximum five sessions per course of 
treatment 
B 
BETOS: PSE Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established by earners 
Coding Clinic. 2004, 01 
m G0341 Percutaneous islet cell transplant, includes 
portal vein catheterization and infusion 
c 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Price established by carriers 
m G0342 Laparoscopy for islet cell transplant, includes 
portal vein catheterization and infusion 
c 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Price established by earners 
m G0343 Laparotomy for islet cell transplant, includes 
portal vein catheterization and infusion 
C 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Price established by carriers 
m G0372 Physician service required to establish and 
document the need for a power mobility 
device 
M 
BETOS: MS□ Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
G0330 - G0381 
HOSPITAL OBSERVATION AND EMERGENCY SERVICES 
(G0378-G0384) 
m G0378 Hospital observation service, per hour 
N 
BETOS: M2A Hospital visit - initial 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04, 2005, 04; 2005, 
04;2006,03;2007,01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 290.5.2; 100-4, 
Chapter-4, 290.5.1; 100-4, Chapter-4, 290.4.3; 
100-4, Chapter-4, 290.4.2; 100-4, Chapter-4,
290.4.1; 100-4, Chapter-4, 290.2.2; 100-2,
Chapter-6, 20.6 
m G0379 Direct admission of patient for hospital 
observation care 
J2 
BETOS: M2A Hospital visit - initial 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04; 2005, 04; 2005, 
Q4; 2007, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 290.5.2; 100-4, 
Chapter-4, 290.5.1; 100-4, Chapter-4, 290.4.3; 
100-4, Chapter-4, 290.4.1
B G0380 Level 1 hospital emergency depment 
visit provided in a type B emergency 
department; (the ED must meet at least 
one of the following requirements: (1) it is 
licensed by the state in which it is located 
under applicable state law as an emergency 
room or emergency department; (2) it is 
held out to the public (by name, posted 
signs, advertising, or other means) as a 
place that provides care for emergency 
medical conditions on an urgent basis 
without requiring a previously scheduled 
appointment; or (3) during the calendar year 
immediately preceding the calendar year in 
which a determination under 42 CFR 489.24 
is being made, based on a representative 
sample of patient visits that occurred during 
that calendar year, it provides at least 
one-third of all of its outpatient visits for the 
treatment of emergency medical conditions 
on an urgent basis without requiring a 
previously scheduled appointment) 
J2 
BETOS: M3 Emergency room visit 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q4; 2007, Q4; 2007, 
Q2; 2009, 01; 2013, Q4 
B G0381 Level 2 hospital emergency department 
visit provided in a type B emergency 
department; (the ED must meet at least 
one of the following requirements: (1) it is 
licensed by the state in which it is located 
under applicable state law as an emergency 
room or emergency department; (2) it is 
held out to the public (by name, posted 
signs, advertising, or other means) as a 
place that provides care for emergency 
medical conditions on an urgent basis 
without requiring a previously scheduled 
appointment; or (3) during the calendar year 
immediately preceding the calendar year in 
d' Maleonly 
'f Female only 
0 Age 
Al. -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A Y = APC S tatus indicator 
ASC = ASC App roved P roc edure 
l!1lll Paid under the DME fee schedule 
rnm MIPS code 
cp-,. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
225 
G0382 - G0398 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
226 
which a determination under 42 CFR 489.24 
is being made, based on a representative 
sample of patient visits that occurred during 
that calendar year, it provides at least 
one-third of all of its outpatient visits for the 
treatment of emergency medical conditions 
on an urgent basis without requiring a 
previously scheduled appointment) 
J2 
BETOS: M3 Emergency room visit 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q4; 2007, Q4; 2013, Q4 
r:J G0382 Level 3 hospital emergency department 
visit provided in a type B emergency 
department; (the ED must meet at least 
one of the following requirements: (1) ii is 
licensed by the state in which it is located 
under applicable state law as an emergency 
room or emergency department; (2) it is 
held out to the public (by name, posted 
signs, advertising, or other means) as a 
place that provides care for emergency 
medical conditions on an urgent basis 
without requiring a previously scheduled 
appointment; or (3) during the calendar year 
immediately preceding the calendar year in 
which a determination under 42 CFR 489.24 
Is being made, based on a representative 
sample of patient visits that occurred during 
that calendc'r year, it provides at least 
one-third of all of its outpatient visits for the 
treatment of emergency medical conditions 
on an urgent basis without requiring a 
previously scheduled appointment) 
J2 
BETOS: M3 Emergency room visit 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q4, 2007, Q4; 2013, Q4 
r:J G0383 Level 4 hospital emergency department 
visit provided in a type B emergency 
department; (the ED must meet at least 
one of the following requirements: (1) it is 
licensed by the state in which it is located 
under applicable state law as an emergency 
room or emergency department; (2) it is 
held out to the public (by name, posted 
signs, advertising, or other means) as a 
place that provides care for emergency 
medical conditions on an urgent basis 
without requiring a previously scheduled 
appointment; or (3) during the calendar year 
immediately preceding the calendar year in 
which a determination under 42 CFR 489.24 
is being made, based on a representative 
sample of patient visits that occurred during 
that calendar year, it provides at least 
one-third of all of its outpatient visits for the 
treatment of emergency medical conditions 
on an urgent basis without requiring a 
previously scheduled appointment) 
J2 
BETOS: M3 Emergency room visit 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2013, Q4 
r:J G0384 Level 5 hospital emergency department 
visit provided in a type B emergency 
department; (the ED must meet at least 
one of the following requirements: (1) it is 
licensed by the state in which it is located 
under applicable state law as an emergency 
room or emergency department; (2) it is 
held out to the public (by name, posted 
signs, advertising, or other means) as a 
place that provides care for emergency 
medical conditions on an urgent basis 
without requiring a previously scheduled 
appointment; or (3) during the calendar year 
immediately preceding the calendar year in 
which a determination under 42 CFR 489.24 
is being made, based on a representative 
sample of patient visits that occurred during 
that calendar year, it provides at least 
one-third of all of its outpatient visits for the 
treatment of emergency medical conditions 
on an urgent basis without requiring a 
previously scheduled appointment) 
J2 
BETOS: M3 Emergency room visit 
'
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q4; 2007, Q2; 2009, 
Q1; 2013, Q4 
OTHER EMERGENCY SERVICES (G0390) 
l:J G0390 Trauma response team associated with 
hospital critical care service 
S 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q4; 2007, Q2 
ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE ASSESSMENTS 
(G0396-G0397) 
r:J G0396 Alcohol and/or substance (other than 
tobacco) misuse structured assessment 
(e.g., audit, dast), and brief intervention 15 to 
30 minutes 
S 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2019, Q3 
r:J G0397 Alcohol and/or substance (other than 
tobacco) misuse structured assessment 
(e.g., audit, dast), and intervention, greater 
than 30 minutes 
S 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
SLEEP STUDIES, IN HOME (G0398-G0400) 
r:J G0398 Home sleep study test (HST) with type II 
portable monitor, unattended; minimum 
of 7 channels: eeg, eog, emg, ecg/heart 
rate, airflow, respiratory effort and oxygen 
saturation 
s 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
• Newcode
.A. Revised code 
r:J Carrier judgment 
6J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" ,s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 03 
B G0399 Home sleep test (HST) with type Ill portable 
monitor, unattended; minimum of 4 channels: 
2 respiratory movemenUairflow, 1 ecg/heart 
rate and 1 oxygen saturation 
S 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008 03 
B G0400 Home sleep test (HST) with type IV 
portable monitor, unattended; minimum of 3 
channels 
S 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 03 
INITIAL SERVICES FOR MEDICARE ENROLLMENT 
(G0402-G0405) 
B G0402 Initial preventive physical examination; 
face-to-face visit, services limited to new 
beneficiary during the first 12 months of 
Medicare enrollment 
V IIJliJ 
CPT' Crosswalk: 99385, 99386, 99387, 
99395,99396,99397,99401,99402,99403, 
99404,99411,99412,99429 
BETOS: M1A Office visits• new 
Pnce established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 04; 2008, 04 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 140.6; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 80.4; 100-4, Chapter-18, 80.3.3; 
100-4, Chapter-18, 80.2; 100-4, Chapter-18,
80.1; 100-4, Chapter-12, 100.1.1
B G0403 Electrocardiogram, routine ECG with 12 
leads; performed as a screening for the 
initial preventive physical examination with 
interpretation and report 
M 
CP 
Crosswalk: 93000, 93040 
BETOS: T2C Other tests - EKG monitoring 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 80.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 80.2 
B G0404 Electrocardiogram, routine ECG with 12 
leads; tracing only, without interpretation 
and report, performed as a screening for the 
initial preventive physical examination 
S 
CPT® Crosswalk: 93005 
BETOS: T2C Other tests - EKG monitoring 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 80.3.3; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 80.2; 100-4, Chapter-18, 80.1 
B G0405 Electrocardiogram, routine ECG with 
12 leads; interpretation and report only, 
performed as a screening for the initial 
preventive physical examination 
B 
CPT® Crosswalk: 93010, 93042 
BETOS: T2C Other tests - EKG monitoring 
G0399 - G0411 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 80.2 
FOLLOW-UP TELEHEALTH CONSULTATIONS (G0406-G0408) 
B G0406 Follow-up inpatient consultation, limited, 
physicians typically spend 15 minutes 
communicating with the patient via 
telehealth 
B 
BETOS: M6 Consultations 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04; 2019, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.3 
B G0407 Follow-up inpatient consultation, 
intermediate, physicians typically spend 
25 minutes communicating with the patient 
via telehealth 
B 
BETOS: M6 
Consultations 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04; 2019, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-12, 190,3.3 , 
B G0408 Follow-up inpatient consultation, complex, 
physicians typically spend 35 minutes 
communicating with the patient via 
telehealth 
B 
BETOS: M6 Consultations 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04, 2019 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.3 
PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES (G0409-G0411) 
B G0409 Social work and psychological services, 
directly relating to and/or furthering 
the patient's rehabilitation goals, each 
15 minutes, face-to-face; individual 
(services provided by a CORF-qualified 
social worker or psychologist in 
a CORF) 
B IIJliJ 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-5, 100.4 
.A. B G0410 Group psychotherapy other than of 
a multiple-family group, in a partial 
hospitalization or intensive outpatient setting, 
approximately 45 to 50 minutes 
P IIJliJ 
BETOS: P6D Minor procedures - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 04, 2008, 04, 2012. 04 
.A. el G0411 Interactive group psychotherapy, in a partial 
hospitalization or intensive outpatient setting, 
approximately 45 to 50 minutes 
P lillW 
BETOS: P6D Minor procedures - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 04; 2008, 04; 2012, 04 
d' Maleonly 
× Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
lllml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
lil!W MIPS code 
CPr-1s a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
227 
G0412 - G0427 
FRACTURE TREATMENT (G0412-G0415) 
B G0412 Open treatment of iliac spine(s), tuberosity 
avulsion, or iliac wing fracture(s), unilateral 
or bilateral for pelvic bone fracture patterns 
which do not disrupt the pelvic ring includes 
internal fixation, when performed 
C 
CPT® Crosswalk: 27215 
BETOS: P3D Major procedure, orthopedic 
- other
Price established by carriers
Coding Clinic: 2008 Q4
B G0413 Percutaneous skeletal fixation of posterior 
pelvic bone fracture and/or dislocation, for 
fracture patterns which disrupt the pelvic 
ring, unilateral or bilateral, (includes ilium, 
sacroiliac joint and/or sacrum) 
J1 
CP 
Crosswalk: 27216 
BETOS: P3D Major procedure, orthopedic 
- other
Price established by carriers
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4
B G0414 Open treatment of anterior pelvic bone 
fracture and/or dislocation for fracture 
patterns which disrupt the pelvic ring, 
unilateral or bilateral, includes internal 
fixation when performed (includes pubic 
symphysis and/or superior/inferior rami) 
C 
CPT" Crosswalk: 27217 
BETOS: P3D Major procedure, orthopedic 
- other
Price established by earners
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4
B G0415 Open treatment of posterior pelvic bone 
fracture and/or dislocation, for fracture 
patterns which disrupt the pelvic ring, 
unilateral or bilateral, includes internal 
fixation, when performed (includes ilium, 
sacroiliac joint and/or sacrum) 
C 
BETOS: P3D Major procedure, orthopedic 
- other
Price established by carriers
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4
GROSS AND MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATIONS, PROSTATE 
BIOPSY (G0416) 
B G0416 Surgical pathology, gross and microscopic 
examinations, for prostate needle biopsy, 
any method 
 02 
BETOS: T1 G Lab tests - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04, 2022, 02 
FACE-TO-FACE EDUCATIONAL SERVICES (G0420-G0421) 
B G0420 Face-to-face educational services related 
to the care of chronic kidney disease; 
individual, per session, per one hour 
A 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
BETOS: M1B Office visits - established 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2019. Q3 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-15, 310.3 
B G0421 Face-to-face educational services related to 
the care of chronic kidney disease; group, 
per session, per one hour 
A 
BETOS: M 1 B Office visits - established 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
Pub: 100-2, Chapter-15, 310.3 
CARDIAC AND PULMONARY REHABILITATION SERVICES 
(G0422-G0423) 
B G0422 Intensive cardiac rehabilitation; with or 
without continuous ECG monitoring with 
exercise, per session 
S 
CPT" Crosswalk: 93797, 93798, 93799 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 140.3.1 
' 
B G0423 Intensive cardiac rehabilitation; with or 
without continuous ECG monitoring; without 
exercise, per session 
S 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 140.3.1 
INITIAL TELEHEALTH CONSULTATIONS (G0425-G0427) 
B G0425 Telehealth consultation, emergency 
department or initial inpatient, typically 
30 minutes communicating with the patient 
via telehealth 
B 
BETOS: M6 Consultations 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019. Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.2 
B G0426 Telehealth consultation, emergency 
department or initial inpatient, typically 
50 minutes communicating with the 
patient via telehealth 
B 
BETOS: M6 Consultations 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.2 
B G0427 Telehealth consultation, emergency 
department or initial inpatient, typically 
70 minutes or more communicating 
with the patient via telehealtlr 
BETOS: M6 Consultations 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.2 
B 
• Newcode
"" Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
228 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
C 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
FILLER PROCEDURES (G0428-G0429) 
m G0428 Collagen meniscus implant procedure for 
filling meniscal defects (e.g., CMI, collagen 
scaffold, Menaflex) 
E1 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G0429 Dermal filler injection(s) for the treatment of 
facial lipodystrophy syndrome (LOS) 
(e.g., as a result of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy) 
P3 ASC T 
CP 
Crosswalk: 11950, 11951, 11952, 
11954 
BETOS: P6A Minor procedures • skin 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2010, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 260.2.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 260.2.2 
LABORATORY SCREENING TESTS (G0432-G0435) 
B G0432 Infectious agent antibody detection by 
enzyme immunoassay (EIA) technique, 
HIV-1 and/or HIV-2, screening 
CP 
Crosswalk: 86701, 86702, 86703, 
87389,87390,87391,87806 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2010, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 130.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 130.2; 100-4, Chapter-18, 130.3 
B G0433 Infectious agent antibody detection by 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) technique, HIV-1 and/or HIV-2, 
A 
screening 
A 
CPT' Crosswalk: 86701, 86702, 86703, 
87389,87390,87391,87806 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2010, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 130.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 130.2; 100-4, Chapter-18, 130.3 
B G0435 Infectious agent antibody detection 
by rapid antibody test, HIV-1 and/or HIV-2, 
screening 
A 
CPTV Crosswalk: 86689, 86701, 86702, 
86703,87389,87390,87391,87806 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2010, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 130.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 130.2; 100-4, Chapter-18, 130.3 
G0428 - G044S 
COUNSELING, SCREENING, AND PREVENTION SERVICES 
(G0438-G0451) 
B G0438 Annual wellness visit; includes a 
personalized prevention plan of service 
(PPPS), initial visit 
A tlnl 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99385, 99386, 99387, 
99395,99396,99397,99401,99402,99403, 
99404,99406,99407, 99408,99409,99429 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 140.6; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 140.1; 100-4, Chapter-12, 100.1.1 
B G0439 Annual wellness visit, includes a 
personalized prevention plan of service 
(PPPS), subsequent visit 
A !ml 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99385, 99386, 99387, 
99395,99396,99397,99401,99402,99403, 
99404,99406,99407, 99408,99409, 99429 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 140.6 
B G0442 Annual alcohol misuse screening, 
5 to 15 minutes 
CP 
Crosswalk: 99408 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 01; 2019, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 180.1 
B G0443 Brief face-to-face behavioral counseling for 
s 
alcohol misuse, 15 minutes 
S 
CP"f'lil Crosswalk: 99409 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established by earners 
Coding Clinic: 2012 01; 2019 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 180.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 180.4 
B G0444 Annual depression screening, 5 to 
15 minutes 
S !ml 
CPT® Crosswalk: 96127, 96160, 96161, 
99401 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 190.3; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 190.2; 100-4, Chapter-18, 190.1 
B G0445 High intensity behavioral counseling to 
prevent sexually transmitted infection; face­
to-face, individual, includes: education, skills 
training and guidance on how to change 
sexual behavior; performed semi-annually, 
30 minutes 
S 
CPT® Crosswalk: 96158 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
,i' Male only 
f?. Female only 
0 Age 
Al.- Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
ASC- ASC Approved Procedure 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
!ml MIPS code
CPr-1s a registered trademark af the American Med,ca/ Associat,an. All rights reserved. 
229 
G0446 - G0466 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 170.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 170.3; 100-4, Chapter-18, 170.4.1 
B G0446 Annual, face-to-face intensive behavioral 
therapy for cardiovascular disease, 
individual, 15 minutes 
S 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99401 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q2; 2019, Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 160.4; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 160.3; 100-4, Chapter-18, 160.2.2; 
100-4, Chapter-18, 160.2.1; 100-4, Chapter-18,
160.1
B G0447 Face-to-face behavioral counseling for 
obesity, 15 minutes 
S la 
CP 
Crosswalk: 96158, 96159, 99401 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q1; 2019, Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 200.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 200.3; 100-4, Chapter-18, 200.4 
B G0448 Insertion or replacement of a permanent 
pacing cardioverter-defibrillator system with 
transvenous lead(s), single or dual chamber 
with insertion of pacing electrode, cardiac 
venous system, for left ventricular pacing 
B 
CPT® Crosswalk: 33230, 33231, 33240, 
33241,33249,33262,33263, 33264,33270, 
33999 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Price established by carriers 
B G0451 Development testing, with interpretation and 
report, per standardized instrument form 03 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
MISCELLANEOUS SERVICES (G0452-G0465) 
B G0452 Molecular pathology procedure; physician 
interpretation and report 
B 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Price established by carriers 
B G0453 Continuous intraoperative neurophysiology 
monitoring, from outside the operating room 
(remote or nearby), per patient, (attention 
directed exclusively to one patient) each 
15 minutes (list in addition to primary 
procedure) 
N 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Price established by carriers 
B G0454 Physician documentation of face-to-face visit 
for durable medical equipment determination 
performed by nurse practitioner, physician 
assistant or clinical nurse specialist 
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G0455 Preparation with instillation of fecal 
microbiota by any method, including 
assessment of donor specimen 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q3 
T 
B G0458 Low dose rate (LDR) prostate brachytherapy 
services, composite rate 
ri" B 
BETOS: P7 A Oncology • radiation therapy 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G0459 Inpatient telehealth pharmacologic 
management, including prescription, use, 
and review of medication with no more than 
minimal medical psychotherapy 
B 
CPT® Crosswalk: 90863 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
A B G0460 Autologous platelet rich plasma or other 
blood-derived product for non-diabetic 
chronic wounds/ulcers, including as , 
applicable phlebotomy, centrifugation or 
mixing, and all other preparatory procedures, 
administration and dressings, per treatment T 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022. Q3, 2023 Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 11.3.6; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 11.3.2 
B G0463 Hospital outpatient clinic visit for assessment 
and management of a patient 
J2 tlm 
BETOS: M 1 B Office visits - established 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q4; 2014, Q4, 2020, 
Q2; 2020, Q4 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4. 290.5.1 
• B G0465 Autologous platelet rich plasma (PRP) or
other blood-derived product for diabetic chronic 
wounds/ulcers, using an fda-cleared device 
for this indication, (includes as applicable 
administration, dressings, phlebotomy, 
centrifugation or mixing, and all other 
preparatory procedures, per treatment) 
T 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q3, 2023, Q3 
FEDERALLY QUALIFIED HEALTH CENTER (FQHC) VISITS 
(G0466-G0470) 
B G0466 Federally qualified health certter (FQHC) 
visit, new patient; a medically-necessary, 
face-to-face encounter (one-on-one) 
between a new patient and a FQHC 
practitioner during which lime one or more 
FQHC services are rendered and includes a 
typical bundle of Medicare-covered services 
that would be furnished per diem to a patient 
receiving a FQHC visit 
A 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
230 
CPT" ,s a registered trademark of the Amer,can Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
BETOS: M1A Office visits - new 
Price established by carriers 
B G0467 Federally qualified health center (FQHC) 
visit, established patient; a medically­
necessary, face-to-face encounter (one­
on-one) between an established patient 
and a FQHC practitioner during which time 
one or more FQHC services are rendered 
and includes a typical bundle of Medicare­
covered services that would be furnished per 
diem to a patient receiving a FQHC visit 
A 
BETOS: M1 B 
Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
B G0468 Federally qualified health center (FQHC) 
visit, ippe or awv; a FQHC visit that includes 
an initial preventive physical examination 
(IPPE) or annual wellness visit (AWV) and 
includes a typical bundle of Medicare­
covered services that would be furnished 
per diem to a patient receiving an IPPE or 
AWV 
AllJm 
BETOS: M1 B Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
B G0469 Federally qualified health center (FQHC) 
visit, mental health, new patient; a medically­
necessary, face-to-face mental health 
encounter (one-on-one) between a new 
patient and a FQHC practitioner during 
which time one or more FQHC services are 
rendered and includes a typical bundle of 
Medicare-covered services that would be 
furnished per diem to a patient receiving a 
mental health visit 
A llJm 
BETOS: M 1 A Office visits - new 
Price established by carriers 
B G0470 Federally qualified health center (FQHC) 
visit, mental health, established patient; a 
medically-necessary, face-to-face mental 
health encounter (one-on-one) between an 
established patient and a FQHC practitioner 
during which time one or more FQHC 
services are rendered and includes a typical 
bundle of Medicare-covered services that 
would be furnished per diem to a patient 
receiving a mental health visit 
A llJm 
BETOS: M1 B 
Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
OTHER SERVICES (G0471-G0659) 
B G0471 Collection of venous blood by venipuncture 
or urine sample by catheterization from an 
individual in a skilled nursing facility (SNF) or 
by a laboratory on behalf of a home health 
agency (HHA) 
A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 36400, 36405, 36406, 
36410, 36415,51701 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-16, 60.1.4 
G0467 - G0480 
I!) G0472 Hepatitis C antibody screening, for individual 
at high risk and other covered indication(s) A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 86803, 86804 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established by carriers 
Statute: 1861 SSA 
B G0473 Face-to-face behavioral counseling for 
obesity, group (2-10), 30 minutes 
S llJm 
CPT® Crosswalk: 96164, 99078, 99411 
BETOS: M1 B 
Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 200.3; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 200.1 
B G0475 Hiv antigen/antibody, combination assay, 
screening 
A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 86701, 86702, 86703, 
87389,87390,87391,87806 
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other 
Price established by carriers 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-18, 130.2; 100-4, 
Chapter-18, 130.3 
B G0476 Infectious agent detection by nucleic acid 
(dna or rna); human papillomavirus (hpv), 
high-risk types (eg, 16, 18, 31, 33, 35, 39, 
45, 51, 52, 56, 58, 59, 68) for cervical cancer 
screening, must be performed in addition to 
¾p¿À
¥A
CPT® Crosswalk: 87624, 87625, 0500T
BETOS: T2D Other tests - other
Price established by carriers
B G0480 Drug test(s), definitive, utilizing (1) drug 
identification methods able to identify 
individual drugs and distinguish between 
structural isomers (but not necessarily 
stereoisomers), including, but not limited to 
GC/MS (any type, single or tandem) and 
LC/MS (any type, single or tandem and 
excluding immunoassays (e.g., IA, EIA, 
ELISA, EMIT, FPIA) and enzymatic methods 
(e.g., alcohol dehydrogenase)), (2) stable 
isotope or other universally recognized 
internal standards in all samples (e.g., to 
control for matrix effects, interferences and 
variations in signal strength), and (3) method 
or drug-specific calibration and matrix­
matched quality control material (e.g., to 
control for instrument variations and mass 
spectral drift); qualitative or quantitative, all 
sources, includes specimen validity testing, 
per day; 1-7 drug class(es), including 
metabolite(s) if performed 
04 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1; 2022, Q2 
cl' Male only 
¥ Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
liD Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
llJm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
231 
G0481 - G0494 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999J 
232 
B G0481 Drug test(s), definitive, utilizing (1) drug 
identification methods able to identify 
individual drugs and distinguish between 
structural isomers (but not necessarily 
stereoisomers), including, but not limited to 
GC/MS (any type, single or tandem) and 
LC/MS (any type, single or tandem and 
excluding immunoassays (e.g., IA, EIA, 
ELISA, EMIT, FPIA) and enzymatic methods 
(e.g., alcohol dehydrogenase)), (2) stable 
isotope or other universally recognized 
internal standards in all samples (e.g., to 
control for matrix effects, interferences and 
variations in signal strength), and (3) method 
or drug-specific calibration and matrix­
matched quality control material (e.g., to 
control for instrument variations and mass 
spectral drift); qualitative or quantitative, all 
sources, includes specimen validity testing, 
per day; 8-14 drug class(es), including 
metabolite(s) if performed 
Q4 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1; 2022, Q2 
B G0482 Drug test(s), definitive, utilizing (1) drug 
identification methods able to identify 
individual drugs and distinguish between 
structural isomers (but not necessarily 
stereoisomers), including, but not limited to 
GC/MS (any type, single or tandem) and 
LC/MS (any type, single or tandem and 
excluding immunoassays (e.g., IA, EIA, 
ELISA, EMIT, FPIA) and enzymatic methods 
(e.g., alcohol dehydrogenase)), (2) stable 
isotope or other universally recognized 
internal standards in all samples (e.g., to 
control for matrix effects, interferences and 
variations in signal strength), and (3) method 
or drug-specific calibration and matrix­
matched quality control material (e.g., to 
control for instrument variations and mass 
spectral drift); qualitative or quantitative, all 
sources, includes specimen validity testing, 
per day; 15-21 drug class(es), including 
metabolite(s) if performed 
Q4 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1; 2022, Q2 
B G0483 Drug test(s), definitive, utilizing (1) drug 
identification methods able to identify 
individual drugs and distinguish between 
structural isomers (but not necessarily 
stereoisomers), including, but not limited to 
GC/MS (any type, single or tandem) and 
LC/MS (any type, single or tandem and 
excluding immunoassays (e.g., IA, EIA, 
ELISA, EMIT, FPIA) and enzymatic methods 
(e.g., alcohol dehydrogenase)), (2) stable 
isotope or other universally recognized 
internal standards in all samples (e.g., to 
control for matrix effects, interferences and 
variations in signal strength), and (3) method 
or drug-specific calibration and matrix­
matched quality control material (e.g., to 
control for instrument variations and mass 
spectral drift); qualitative or quantitative, all 
sources, includes specimen validity testing, 
per day; 22 or more drug class(es), including 
metabolite(s) if performed 
Q4 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1; 2022, Q2 
B G0490 Face-to-face home health nursing visit by a 
rural health clinic (RHC) or federally qualified 
health center (FQHC) in an area with a 
shortage of home health agencies; 
(services limited to RN or LPN only) 
A 
BETOS: M4A 
Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G0491 Dialysis procedure at a Medicare certified 
ESRD facility for acute kidney injury 
without ESRD 
B 
BETOS: P9A Dialysis services 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
B G0492 Dialysis procedure with single evaluation 
by a physician or other qualified health care 
professional for acute kidney injury without 
ESRD 
B 
BETOS: P9A Dialysis services 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
B G0493 Skilled services of a registered nurse (RN) 
for the observation and assessment of the 
patient's condition, each 15 minutes (the 
change in the patient's condition requires 
skilled nursing personnel to identify and 
evaluate the patient's need for possible 
modification of treatment in the home health 
or hospice setting) 
B lm1 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G0494 Skilled services of a licensed practical nurse 
(LPN) for the observation and assessment of 
the patient's condition, each 15 minutes (the 
change in the patient's condition requires 
skilled nursing personnel to identify and 
evaluate the patient's need for possible 
modification of treatment in the home health 
or hospice setting) 
B lilm 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
A Revised code 
8 Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G0495 Skilled services of a registered nurse (RN), 
in the training and/or education of a patient 
or family member, in the home health or 
hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G0496 Skilled services of a licensed practical nurse 
(LPN), in the training and/or education of a 
patient or family member, in the home health 
or hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G0498 Chemotherapy administration, intravenous 
infusion technique; initiation of infusion in the 
office/clinic setting using office/clinic pump/ 
supplies, with continuation of the infusion 
in the community setting (e.g., home, 
domiciliary, rest home or assisted living) 
using a portable pump provided by the office/ 
clinic, includes follow up office/clinic visit at 
the conclusion of the infusion 
S 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 02 
B G0499 Hepatitis b screening in non-pregnant, 
high risk individual includes hepatitis b 
surface antigen (hbsag), antibodies to 
hbsag (anti-hbs) and antibodies to hepatitis 
b core antigen (anti-hbc), and is followed 
by a neutralizing confirmatory test, when 
performed, only for an initially reactive 
hbsag result 
A 
CPT® Crosswalk: 86704, 86706, 87340, 
87341 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
B G0500 Moderate sedation services provided by the 
same physician or other qualified health care 
professional performing a gastrointestinal 
endoscopic service that sedation supports, 
requiring the presence of an independent 
trained observer to assist in the monitoring 
of the patient's level of consciousness and 
physiological status; initial 15 minutes of 
intra-service time; patient age 5 years or 
older (additional time may be reported 
B G0501 
with 99153, as appropriate) 
0 N 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99151, 99152, 99153 
BETOS: PO 
Anesthesia 
Price established by carriers 
Resource-intensive services for patients 
for whom the use of specialized mobility­
assistive technology (such as adjustable 
height chairs or tables, patient lift, and 
adjustable padded leg supports) is medically 
necessary and used during the provision 
of an office/outpatient, evaluation and 
G0495- G0513 
management visit (list separately in addition 
to primary service) 
N 
BETOS: M50 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
B G0506 Comprehensive assessment of and care 
planning for patients requiring chronic 
care management services (list separately 
in addition to primary monthly care 
management service) 
N 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
B G0508 Telehealth consultation, critical care, initial 
, physicians typically spend 60 minutes 
communicating with the patient and 
providers via telehealth 
B 
BETOS: M50 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
B G0509 Telehealth consultation, critical care, 
subsequent, physicians typically spend 
50 minutes communicating with the patient 
and providers via telehealth 
B 
BETOS: M50 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
1:J G0511 Rural health clinic or federally qualified 
health center (RHC or FQHC) only, 
general care management, 20 minutes or 
more of clinical staff time for chronic care 
management services or behavioral health 
integration services directed by an RHC or 
FQHC practitioner (physician, NP, PA, or 
CNM), per calendar month 
BETOS: M50 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
1:J G0512 Rural health clinic or federally qualified 
health center (RHC or FQHC) only, 
psychiatric collaborative care model 
(psychiatric COCM), 60 minutes or more 
A 
of clinical staff time for psychiatric cocm 
services directed by an RHC or FQHC 
practitioner (physician, NP, PA, or CNM) and 
including services furnished by a behavioral 
health care manager and consultation with a 
psychiatric consultant, per calendar month A 
BETOS: M50 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
B G0513 Prolonged preventive service(s) (beyond 
the typical service time of the primary 
procedure), in the office or other outpatient 
setting requiring direct patient contact 
beyond the usual service; first 30 minutes 
(list separately in addition to code for 
preventive service) 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99415 
BETOS: M50 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
N 
d' Male only 
Â Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
Clm MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
233 
G0514-G1007 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
234 
B G0514 Prolonged preventive service(s) (beyond 
the typical service time of the primary 
procedure), in the office or other outpatient 
setting requiring direct patient contact 
beyond the usual service; each additional 
30 minutes (list separately in addition to 
code G0513 for additional 30 minutes of 
preventive service) 
N 
CP Crosswalk: 99416 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
l:J G0516 Insertion of non-biodegradable drug delivery 
implants, 4 or more (services for 
subdermal rod implant) 
N1 ASC Q1 
CPCrosswalk: 11981, 0278T 
BETOS: P6C 
Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
l:J G0517 Removal of non-biodegradable drug delivery 
implants, 4 or more (services for 
subdermal implants) 
N1 ASC Q1 
CP Crosswalk: 11982 
BETOS: P6C 
Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
l:J G0518 Removal with reinsertion, non-biodegradable 
drug delivery implants, 4 or more 
(services for subdermal 
implants) 
N1 ASC Q1 
CP Crosswalk: 11983, 0278T 
BETOS: P6C 
Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
l:J G0659 Drug test(s), definitive, utilizing drug 
identification methods able to identify 
individual drugs and distinguish between 
structural isomers (but not necessarily 
stereoisomers), including but not limited to 
GC/MS (any type, single or tandem) and LC/ 
MS (any type, single or tandem), excluding 
immunoassays (e.g., IA, EIA, ELISA, EMIT, 
FPIA) and enzymatic methods (e.g., alcohol 
dehydrogenase), performed without method 
or drug-specific calibration, without matrix­
matched quality control material, or without 
use of stable isotope or other universally 
recognized internal standard(s) for each 
drug, drug metabolite or drug class per 
specimen; qualitative or quantitative, all 
sources, includes specimen validity testing, 
per day, any number of drug classes 
Q4 
BETOS: T 1  H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
QUALITY MEASURES FOR CATARACT SURGERY 
(G0913-G0918) 
B G0913 Improvement in visual function 
achieved within 90 days following 
cataract surgery 
M mm 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J G0914 Patient care survey was not completed 
by patient 
M mm 
BETOS: M5O 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J G0915 Improvement in visual function 
not achieved within 90 days following 
cataract surgery 
M mm 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J G0916 Satisfaction with care achieved within 
90 days following cataract surgery 
M mm 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J G0917 Patient care survey was not completed 
by patient 
M mm 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J G0918 Satisfaction with care not achieved within 
90 days following cataract surgery 
M mm 
BETOS: M5O 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
CLINICAL DECISION SUPPORT MECHANISM (CDSM) 
(G1001-G1028) 
l:J G1001 Clinical decision support mechanism evicore, 
as defined by the Medicare appropriate use 
criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J G1002 Clinical decision support mechanism 
medcurrent, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J G1003 Clinical decision support mechanism 
medicalis, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1004 Clinical decision support mechanism national 
decision support company, as defined by the 
Medicare appropriate use criteria program E1 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J G1007 Clinical decision support mechanism aim 
specialty health, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
.A. Revised code 
l:J Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
li!jJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G1008 Clinical decision support mechanism 
cranberry peak, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E 1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1010 Clinical decision support mechanism 
stanson, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1011 Clinical decision support mechanism, 
qualified tool not otherwise specified, as 
defined by the Medicare appropriate use 
criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1012 Clinical decision support mechanism 
agilemd, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1013 Clinical decision support mechanism 
evidence care imaging care, as defined 
by the Medicare appropriate use 
criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1014 Clinical decision support mechanism 
inveniqa semantic answers in medicine, as 
defined by the Medicare appropriate use 
criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1015 Clinical decision support mechanism reliant 
medical group, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1016 Clinical decision support mechanism 
speed of care, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E 1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1017 Clinical decision support mechanism 
healthhelp, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1018 Clinical decision support mechanism infinx, 
as defined by the Medicare appropriate 
use criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1019 Clinical decision support mechanism 
logicnets, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G1008-G1027 
B G1020 Clinical decision support mechanism 
curbside clinical augmented workflow, as 
defined by the Medicare appropriate use 
criteria program 
E 1 
CPT® Crosswalk: 96130, 96131, 96132, 
96133, 96156, 97161, 97162, 97163, 97165, 
97166,97167,97169,97170,97171 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1021 Clinical decision support mechanism 
ehealthline clinical decision support 
mechanism, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E 1 
CPT® Crosswalk: 96130, 96131, 96132, 
96133,96156,97161,97162,97163,97165, 
97166,97167,97169,97170,97171 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1022 Clinical decision support mechanism 
intermountain clinical decision support 
mechanism, as defined by the Medicare 
appropriate use criteria program 
E 1 
CPT®Crosswalk: 96130, 96131, 96132, 
96133,96156,97161, 97162,97163,97165, 
97166,97167,97169, 97170,97171 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1023 Clinical decision support mechanism persivia 
clinical decision support, as defined by the 
Medicare appropriate use criteria program E1 
CPT®Crosswalk: 96130, 96131, 96132, 
96133,96156, 97161,97162,97163,97165, 
97166,97167, 97169,97170,97171 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1024 Clinical decision support mechanism radrite, 
as defined by the Medicare appropriate use 
criteria program 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1025 Patient-months where there are more than 
one Medicare capitated payment (mcp) 
provider listed for the month 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1026 The number of adult patient-months in the 
denominator who were on maintenance 
hemodialysis using a catheter continuously 
for three months or longer under the care of 
the same practitioner or group partner as of 
the last hemodialysis session of the 
reporting month 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1027 The number of adult patient-months in the 
denominator who were on maintenance 
hemodialysis under the care of the same 
practitioner or group partner as of the last 
cl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
tllm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
235 
G1028- G2009 
hemodialysis session of the reporting month 
using a catheter continuously for less than 
three months 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G1028 Take-home supply of nasal naloxone; 2-pack 
of 8mg per 0.1 ml nasal spray (provision 
of the services by a Medicare-enrolled 
opioid treatment program); list separately in 
addition to code for primary procedure 
A 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Price established using national RVUs 
CONVULSIVE THERAPY PROCEDURE (G2000) 
B G2000 Blinded administration of convulsive 
. 
therapy procedure, either electroconvuls1ve 
therapy (ect, current covered gold standard) 
or magnetic seizure therapy (mst, non­
covered experimental therapy), performed 
in an approved ide-based clinical trial, 
per treatment session 
S 
BETOS: P6O 
Minor procedures - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
OTHER EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
(G2001-G2020) 
B G2001 Brief (20 minutes) in-home visit for a new 
patient post-discharge. For use only in a 
Medicare-approved CMMI model. (Services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted 
living and/or nursing facility within 90 days 
following discharge from an inpatient facility 
and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A 
Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G2002 Limited (30 minutes) in-home visit for a new 
patient post-discharge. For use only in a 
Medicare-approved CMMI model. (Services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted 
living and/or nursing facility within 90 days 
following discharge from an inpatient facility 
and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A 
Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G2003 Moderate (45 minutes) in-home visit for a 
new patient post-discharge. For use only in a 
Medicare-approved CMMI model. (Services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted 
living and/or nursing facility within 90 days 
following discharge from an inpatient facility 
and no more than 9 times.) 
B
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G2004 Comprehensive (60 minutes) in-home 
visit for a new patient post-discharge. For 
use only in a Medicare-approved CMMI 
model. (Services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility within 
90 days following discharge from an inpatient 
facility and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A 
Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G2005 Extensive (75 minutes) in-home visit for a_ 
new patient post-discharge. For use only In a 
Medicare-approved CMMI model. (Services 
must be furnished within a beneficiary's 
home, domiciliary, rest home, assisted 
living and/or nursing facility within 90 days 
following discharge from an inpatient facility 
and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A 
Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G2006 Brief (20 minutes) in-home visit for an 
existing patient post-discharge. For use 
only in a Medicare-approved CMMI model. 
(Services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility within 
90 days following discharge from an inpatient 
facility and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A 
Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G2007 Limited (30 minutes) in-home visit for an 
existing patient post-discharge. For use 
only in a Medicare-approved CMMI model. 
(Services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility within 
90 days following discharge from an inpatient 
facility and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A 
Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G2008 Moderate (45 minutes) in-home visit for 
an existing patient post-discharge. For 
use only in a Medicare-approved CMMI 
model. (Services must be furnished within a_
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility within 
90 days following discharge from an inpatient 
facility and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A 
Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G2009 Comprehensive (60 minutes) in-home visit 
for an existing patient post-discharge. For 
use only in a Medicare-approved CMMI 
model. (Services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility within 
90 days following discharge from an inpatient 
facility and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
• Newcode 
D Not payable by Medicare 
.. Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
236 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G2010 Remote evaluation of recorded video and/ 
or images submitted by an established 
patient (e.g., store and forward), including 
interpretation with follow-up with the patient 
within 24 business hours, not originating 
from a related elm service provided within 
the previous 7 days nor leading to an elm 
service or procedure within the next 24 hours 
or soonest available appointment 
B cm
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
B G2011 Alcohol and/or substance (other than 
tobacco) misuse structured assessment 
(e.g., audit, dast), and brief intervention, 
5-14 minutes
s 
BETOS: M 1 B Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
B G2012 Brief communication technology-based 
service, e.g. virtual check-in, by a physician 
or other qualified health care professional 
who can report evaluation and management 
services, provided to an established patient, 
not originating from a related elm service 
provided within the previous 7 days nor 
leading to an elm service or procedure 
within the next 24 hours or soonest available 
appointment; 5-10 minutes of medical 
discussion 
B cm
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
B G2013 Extensive (75 minutes) in-home visit for 
an existing patient post-discharge. For 
use only in a Medicare-approved CMMI 
model. (Services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility within 
90 days following discharge from an inpatient 
facility and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G2014 Limited (30 minutes) care plan oversight. 
For use only in a Medicare-approved CMMI 
model. (Services must be furnished within a 
beneficiary's home, domiciliary, rest home, 
assisted living and/or nursing facility within 
90 days following discharge from an inpatient 
facility and no more than 9 times.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
B G2015 Comprehensive (60 mins) home care plan 
oversight. For use only in a Medicare­
approved CMMI model. (Services must 
be furnished within a beneficiary's home, 
domiciliary, rest home, assisted living and/ 
or nursing facility within 90 days following 
discharge from an inpatient facility.) 
B 
BETOS: M4A Home visit 
Price established by carriers 
G2010 - G2069 
B G2020 Services for high intensity clinical services 
associated with the initial engagement and 
outreach of beneficiaries assigned to the sip 
component of the pcf model (do not bill with 
chronic care management codes) 
A 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 02 
CARE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (G2021-G2025) 
B G2021 Health care practitioners rendering treatment 
in place (tip) 
E1 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2022 A model participant (ambulance supplier/ 
provider), the beneficiary refuses services 
covered under the model (transport to an 
alternate destination/treatment in place) 
E1 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2025 Payment for a telehealth distant site service 
furnished by a rural health clinic (rhc) or 
federally qualified health center (fqhc) only A 
BETOS: M6 Consultations 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
MEDICATION ASSISTED TREATMENT PROGRAM 
(G2067-G2075) 
B G2067 Medication assisted treatment, methadone; 
weekly bundle including dispensing and/or 
administration, substance use counseling, 
individual and group therapy, and toxicology 
testing, if performed (provision of the 
services by a Medicare-enrolled opioid 
treatment program) 
A 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
B G2068 Medication assisted treatment, 
buprenorphine (oral); weekly bundle 
including dispensing and/or administration, 
substance use counseling, individual and 
group therapy, and toxicology testing if 
performed (provision of the services by a 
Medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
program) 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
B G2069 Medication assisted treatment, 
buprenorphine (injectable); weekly bundle 
including dispensing and/or administration, 
substance use counseling, individual and 
group therapy, and toxicology testing if 
performed (provision of the services by a 
Medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
program) 
A 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
cl Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
liml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A- Y = APC Status indicator 
cm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
237 
G2070 - G2081 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
238 
l!I G2070 Medication assisted treatment, 
buprenorphine (implant insertion); weekly 
bundle including dispensing and/or 
administration, substance use counseling, 
individual and group therapy, and toxicology 
testing if performed (provision of the services 
by a Medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
program) 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2071 Medication assisted treatment, 
buprenorphine (implant removal); weekly 
bundle including dispensing and/or 
administration, substance use counseling, 
individual and group therapy, and toxicology 
testing if performed (provision of the services 
by a Medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
program) 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2072 Medication assisted treatment, 
buprenorphine (implant insertion and 
removal); weekly bundle including 
dispensing and/or administration, substance 
use counseling, individual and group therapy, 
and toxicology testing if performed (provision 
of the services by a Medicare-enrolled opioid 
treatment program) 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2073 Medication assisted treatment, naltrexone; 
weekly bundle including dispensing and/or 
administration, substance use counseling, 
individual and group therapy, and toxicology 
testing if performed (provision of the services 
by a Medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
program) 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2074 Medication assisted treatment, weekly 
bundle not including the drug, including 
substance use counseling, individual and 
group therapy, and toxicology testing if 
performed (provision of the services by a 
Medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
program) 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2075 Medication assisted treatment, medication 
not otherwise specified; weekly bundle 
including dispensing and/or administration, 
substance use counseling, individual and 
group therapy, and toxicology testing, if 
performed (provision of the services by a 
Medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
program) 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
OPIOID USE DISORDER - EVALUATION AND TREATMENT 
(G2076-G2081) 
l!I G2076 Intake activities, including initial medical 
examination that is a complete, fully 
documented physical evaluation and initial 
assessment by a program physician or a 
primary care physician, or an authorized 
healthcare professional under the 
supervision of a program physician qualified 
personnel that includes preparation of a 
treatment plan that includes the patient's 
short-term goals and the tasks the patient 
must perform to complete the short-term 
goals; the patient's requirements for 
education, vocational rehabilitation, and 
employment; and the medical, psycho­
social, economic, legal, or other supportive 
services that a patient needs, conducted by 
qualified personnel (provision of the services 
by a Medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
program); list separately in addition to code 
for primary procedure 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2077 Periodic assessment; assessing periodically 
by qualified personnel to determine the 
most appropriate combination of services 
and treatment (provision of the services 
by a Medicare-enrolled opioid treatment 
program); list separately in addition to code 
for primary procedure 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2078 Take-home supply of methadone; up to 
7 additional day supply (provision of the 
services by a Medicare-enrolled opioid 
treatment program); list separately in 
addition to code for primary procedure 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2079 Take-home supply of buprenorphine (oral); 
up to 7 additional day supply (provision 
of the services by a Medicare-enrolled 
opioid treatment program); list separately in 
addition to code for primary procedure 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2080 Each additional 30 minutes of counseling 
in a week of medication assisted treatment, 
(provision of the services by a Medicare­
enrolled opioid treatment program); list 
separately in addition to code for primary 
procedure 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!I G2081 Patients age 66 and older in institutional 
special needs plans (snp) or residing in long­
term care with a pos code 32, 33, 34, 54 or 
• Newcode
0 Not payable by Medicare 
A Revised code 
8 Carrier judgment 
6J Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
E) Non-covered by Medicare statute
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999} 
56 for more than 90 consecutive days during 
the measurement period 
0 M lmi!1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES (G2082-G2083) 
li G2082 Office or other outpatient visit for the 
evaluation and management of an 
established patient that requires the 
supervision of a physician or other qualified 
health care professional and provision 
of up to 56 mg of esketamine nasal self­
administration, includes 2 hours post-
administration observation 
S 
BETOS: M1 B Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
li G2083 Office or other outpatient visit for the 
evaluation and management of an 
established patient that requires the 
supervision of a physician or other qualified 
health care professional and provision 
of greater than 56 mg esketamine nasal 
self-administration, includes 2 hours post-
administration observation 
S 
BETOS: M1 B 
Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
OPIOID USE DISORDER · TREATMENT (OFFICE BASED) 
(G2086-G2088) 
li G2086 Office-based treatment for opioid use 
disorder, including development of the 
treatment plan, care coordination, individual 
therapy and group therapy and counseling; 
at least 70 minutes in the first calendar 
month 
S 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q1 
li G2087 Office-based treatment for opioid use 
disorder, including care coordination, 
individual therapy and group therapy 
and counseling; at least 60 minutes in a 
subsequent calendar month 
S 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q1 
li G2088 Office-based treatment for opioid use 
disorder, including care coordination, 
individual therapy and group therapy and 
counseling; each additional 30 minutes 
beyond the first 120 minutes (list separately 
in addition to code for primary procedure) 
N 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q1 
G2082 - G2097 
FUNCTIONAL STATUS (G2090-G2152) 
li G2090 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and a dispensed 
medication for dementia during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
o M lmi!1
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li G2091 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and either one 
acute inpatient encounter with a diagnosis 
of advanced illness or two outpatient, 
observation, ed or nonacute inpatient 
encounters on different dates of service with 
an advanced illness diagnosis during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
0 M lmi!1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li G2092 Angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) 
inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (arb) 
or angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor 
(arni) therapy prescribed or currently 
being taken 
M lmi!1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li G2093 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not prescribing ace inhibitor or arb or arni 
therapy (e.g., hypotensive patients who 
are at immediate risk of cardiogenic shock, 
hospitalized patients who have experienced 
marked azotemia, allergy, intolerance, 
other medical reasons) 
M lmi!1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li G2094 Documentation of patient reason(s) for 
not prescribing ace inhibitor or arb or arni 
therapy (e.g., patient declined, 
other patient reasons) 
M lmi!1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li G2096 Angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) 
inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (arb) 
or angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor 
(arni) therapy was not prescribed, 
reason not given 
M lmi!1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li G2097 Episodes where the patient had a competing 
diagnosis on or within three days after 
the episode date (e.g., intestinal infection, 
pertussis, bacterial infection, lyme disease, 
otitis media, acute sinusitis, chronic sinusitis, 
infection of the adenoids, prostatitis, 
cellulitis, mastoiditis, or bone infections, 
acute lymphadenitis, impetigo, skin staph 
d" Male only 
-'?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
llLlII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
lmi!1 MIPS code
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
239 
G2098 - G2121 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
240 
infections, pneumonia/gonococcal infections, 
venereal disease (syphilis, chlamydia, 
inflammatory diseases [female reproductive 
organs]), infections of the kidney, 
cystitis or uti) 
M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2098 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and a dispensed 
medication for dementia during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
O M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
B G2099 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and either one 
acute inpatient encounter with a diagnosis 
of advanced illness or two outpatient, 
observation, ed or nonacute inpatient 
encounters on different dates of service with 
an advanced illness diagnosis during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
o M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2100 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and a dispensed 
medication for dementia during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
o M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2101 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and either one 
acute inpatient encounter with a diagnosis 
of advanced illness or two outpatient, 
observation, ed or nonacute inpatient 
encounters on different dates of service with 
an advanced illness diagnosis during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
o M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2105 Patient age 66 or older in institutional special 
needs plans (snp) or residing in long-term 
care with pos code 32, 33, 34, 54 or 56 for 
more than 90 consecutive days 
during the measurement period 
o M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2106 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and a dispensed 
medication for dementia during the 
measurement period or the year prior to the 
measurement period 
O M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2107 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and either one 
acute inpatient encounter with a diagnosis 
of advanced illness or two outpatient, 
observation, ed or nonacute inpatient 
encounters on different dates of service with 
an advanced illness diagnosis during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
o M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2112 Patient receiving <=5 mg daily prednisone 
(or equivalent), or ra activity is worsening, 
or glucocorticoid use is for less than 
6 months 
M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
B G2113 Patient receiving >5 mg daily prednisone 
(or equivalent) for longer than 6 months, 
and improvement or no change in 
disease activity 
M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2115 Patients 66 - 80 years of age with at least 
one claim/encounter for frailty during the 
measurement period and a dispensed 
medication for dementia during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
o M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2116 Patients 66 - 80 years of age with at least 
one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and either one 
acute inpatient encounter with a diagnosis 
of advanced illness or two outpatient, 
observation, ed or nonacute inpatient 
encounters on different dates of service with 
an advanced illness diagnosis during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
o M Llim
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2118 Patients 81 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty 
during the measurement period 
o M Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2121 Depression, anxiety, apathy, and psychosis 
assessed 
Ml!JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code 
• A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
0 G2122 Depression, anxiety, apathy, and psychosis 
not assessed 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 G2125 Patients 81 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the six months prior to the measurement 
period through december 31 of the 
measurement period 
O M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 G2126 Patients 66 - 80 years of age with at least 
one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and either one 
acute inpatient encounter with a diagnosis 
of advanced illness or two outpatient, 
observation, ed or nonacute inpatient 
encounters on different dates of service with 
an advanced illness diagnosis during the 
measurement period or the year prior 
to the measurement period 
O M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Servfce not separately priced by Part B 
0 G2127 Patients 66 - 80 years of age with at least 
one claim/encounter for frailty during the 
measurement period and a dispensed 
medication for dementia during the 
measurement period or the year prior to the 
0 
0 
0 
measurement period 
O M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G2128 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not on a daily aspirin or other antiplatelet 
(e.g. history of gastrointestinal bleed, 
intra-cranial bleed, blood disorders, 
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (itp ), 
gastric bypass or documentation of active 
anticoagulant use during the measurement 
period) 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G2129 Procedure-related bp's not taken during an 
outpatient visit. examples include same day 
surgery, ambulatory service center, g.i. lab, 
dialysis, infusion center, chemotherapy M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G2136 Back pain measured by the visual analog 
scale (vas) or numeric pain scale at three 
months (6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively 
was less than or equal to 3.0 or back pain 
measured by the visual analog scale (vas) 
or numeric pain scale within three months 
preoperatively and at three months (6 - 20 
weeks) postoperatively demonstrated an 
improvement of 5.0 points or greater 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G2122-G2141 
.._ 0 G2137 Back pain measured by the visual analog 
scale (vas) or numeric pain scale at three 
months (6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively was 
greater than 3.0 and back pain measured by 
the visual analog scale (vas) or numeric pain 
scale within three months preoperatively 
and at three months (6 - 20 weeks) 
postoperatively demonstrated 
improvement of less than 5.0 points 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 G2138 Back pain as measured by the visual 
analog scale (vas) or numeric pain scale at 
one year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively 
was less than or equal to 3.0 or back pain 
measured by the visual analog scale (vas) 
or numeric pain scale within three months 
preoperatively and at one year (9 to 15 
months) postoperatively demonstrated an 
improvement of 5.0 points or greater 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.._ 0 G2139 Back pain measured by the visual analog 
scale (vas) or numeric pain scale at one 
year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively was 
greater than 3.0 and back pain measured by 
the visual analog scale (vas) or numeric pain 
scale within three months preoperatively and 
at one year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively 
demonstrated improvement of less than 
0 
5.0 points 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G2140 Leg pain measured by the visual analog 
scale (vas) or numeric pain scale at three 
months (6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively 
was less than or equal to 3.0 or leg pain 
measured by the visual analog scale 
(vas) or numeric pain scale within three 
months preoperatively and at three months 
(6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively 
demonstrated an improvement of 
5.0 points or greater 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q2 
G2141 Leg pain measured by the visual analog 
scale (vas) or numeric pain scale at three 
months (6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively was 
greater than 3.0 and leg pain measured by 
the visual analog scale (vas) or numeric pain 
scale within three months preoperatively 
and at three months (6 - 20 weeks) 
postoperatively demonstrated improvement 
of less than 5.0 points 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
´ Female only 
0 Age 
A2-Z3=ASCµtmcat« 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
cm MIPS code
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
241 
G2142 - G2169 
B G2142 Functional status measured by the oswestry 
disability index (odi version 2.1 a) at one 
year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively 
was less than or equal to 22 or functional 
status measured by the odi version 2.1 a 
within three months preoperatively and at 
one year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively 
demonstrated an improvement of 
30 points or greater 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2143 Functional status measured by the oswestry 
disability index (odi version 2.1 a) at one year 
(9 to 15 months) postoperatively was greater 
than 22 and functional status measured by 
the odi version 2.1 a within three months 
preoperatively and at one year (9 to 15 
months) postoperatively demonstrated an 
improvement of less than 30 points 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2144 Functional status measured by the oswestry 
disability index (odi version 2.1a) at three 
months (6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively was 
less than or equal to 22 or functional status 
measured by the odi version 2.1 a within 
three months preoperatively and at three 
months (6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively 
demonstrated an improvement of 30 points 
or greater 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2145 Functional status measured by the oswestry 
disability index (odi version 2.1 a) at three 
months (6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively 
was greater than 22 and functional status 
measured by the odi version 2.1a within three 
months preoperatively and at three months 
(6 - 20 weeks) postoperatively demonstrated 
an improvement of less than 30 points 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2146 Leg pain as measured by the visual analog 
scale (vas) or numeric pain scale at one year 
(9 to 15 months) postoperatively was less 
than or equal to 3.0 or leg pain measured by 
the visual analog scale (vas) or numeric pain 
scale within three months preoperatively and 
at one year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively 
demonstrated an improvement of 5.0 points 
or greater 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G2147 Leg pain measured by the visual analog 
scale (vas) or numeric pain scale at one 
year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively was 
greater than 3.0 and leg pain measured by 
the visual analog scale (vas) or numeric pain 
scale within three months preoperatively and 
at one year (9 to 15 months) postoperatively 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
demonstrated improvement of less than 
5.0 points 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2148 Multimodal pain management was 
used 
Mmm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2149 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not using multimodal pain management 
(e.g., allergy to multiple classes of 
analgesics. intubated patient. hepatic failure, 
patient reports no pain during pacu stay, 
other medical reason(s)) 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2150 Multimodal pain management was not 
used 
Mcm 
B G2151 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Documentation stating patient has a 
diagnosis of a degenerative neurological 
condition such as als, ms, or parkinson's 
diagnosed at any time before or during 
the episode of care 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2152 Residual score for the neck impairment 
successfully calculated and the 
score was equal to zero (0) or greater 
than zero (> 0) 
M lilm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PERFORMANCE MEASURES (G2167) 
B G2167 Residual score for the neck impairment 
successfully calculated and the score 
was less than zero (< 0) 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
THERAPY MAINTENANCE PROGRAM IN HOME HEALTH 
SETTING (G2168-G2169) 
B G2168 Services performed by a physical therapist 
assistant in the home health setting in the 
delivery of a safe and effective physical 
therapy maintenance program, 
each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2169 Services performed by an occupational 
therapist assistant in the home health 
setting in the delivery of a safe and effective 
occupational therapy maintenance program, 
each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
• Revi*ed code 
B Carrier judgment 
l]J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
242 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
OPIOID USE DISORDER (OUD) TREATMENT SERVICES 
(G2172) 
B G2172 All inclusive payment for services related to 
highly coordinated and integrated opioid use 
disorder (oud) treatment services furnished 
for the demonstration project 
A 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 02 
CLINICIAN DOCUMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
(G2173-G2210) 
B G2173 Uri episodes where the patient had a 
comorbid condition during the 12 months 
prior to or on the episode date 
(e.g., tuberculosis, neutropenia, cystic 
fibrosis, chronic bronchitis, pulmonary 
edema, respiratory failure, rheumatoid 
lung disease) 
M Llm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.a. B G2174 Uri episodes where the patient is taking 
antibiotics (table 1) in the 30 days prior to 
the episode date 
M Llm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2175 Episodes where the patient had a comorbid 
condition during the 12 months prior to or 
on the episode date (e.g., tuberculosis, 
neutropenia, cystic fibrosis, chronic 
bronchitis, pulmonary edema, respiratory 
failure, rheumatoid lung disease) 
M IE 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2176 Outpatient, ed, or observation visits that 
result in an inpatient admission 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2177 Acute bronchitis/bronchiolitis episodes when 
the patient had a new or refill prescription 
of antibiotics (table 1) in the 30 days 
prior to the episode date 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2178 Clinician documented that patient was not 
an eligible candidate for lower extremity 
neurological exam measure, for example 
patient bilateral amputee; patient has 
condition that would not allow them to 
accurately respond to a neurological exam 
(dementia, alzheimer's, etc.); patient has 
previously documented diabetic peripheral 
neuropathy with loss of protective 
sensation 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G2172 - G2190 
B G2179 Clinician documented that patient had 
medical reason for not performing 
lower extremity neurological exam 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2180 Clinician documented that patient was not an 
eligible candidate for evaluation of footwear 
as patient is bilateral lower extremity 
amputee 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2181 Bmi not documented due to medical 
reason or patient refusal of height or 
weight measurement 
M WW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2182 Patient receiving first-time biologic and/or 
immune response modifier therapy 
M WW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2183 Documentation patient unable to 
communicate and informant 
not available 
M IE 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2184 Patient does not have a caregiver 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2185 Documentation caregiver is trained and 
certified in dementia care 
M IE 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2186 Patient /caregiver dyad has been referred 
to appropriate resources and connection 
to those resources is confirmed 
M IE 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2187 Patients with clinical indications for 
imaging of the head: head trauma 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M llJW 
B G2188 Patients with clinical indications for imaging 
of the head: new or change in headache 
above 50 years of age 
O M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2189 Patients with clinical indications for imaging of 
the head: abnormal neurologic exam 
M WW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2190 Patients with clinical indications 
for imaging of the head: headache 
radiating to the neck 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M lillW 
d" Male only 
 Female only 
0_ Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status Indicator 
WW MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
EillJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
243 
G2191 - G2212 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
244 
1:1 G2191 Patients with clinical indications for imaging 
of the head: positional headaches 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2192 Patients with clinical indications for imaging 
of the head: temporal headaches in 
patients over 55 years of age 
0 M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2193 Patients with clinical indications for imaging 
of the head: new onset headache in 
pre-school children or younger 
(<6 years of age) 
0 M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 G2194 Patients with clinical indications for imaging 
of the head: new onset headache in 
pediatric patients with disabilities for which 
headache is a concern as inferred from 
behavior 
0 M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2195 Patients with clinical indications for 
imaging of the head: occipital 
headache in children 
0 M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2196 Patient identified as an unhealthy 
alcohol user when screened for unhealthy 
alcohol use using a systematic 
screening method 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2197 Patient screened for unhealthy alcohol 
use using a systematic screening method 
and not identified as an unhealthy 
alcohol user 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2199 Patient not screened for unhealthy 
alcohol use using a systematic screening 
method 
Mtllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2200 Patient identified as an unhealthy alcohol 
user received brief counseling 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2202 Patient did not receive brief counseling if 
identified as an unhealthy alcohol user M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2204 Patients between 45 and 85 years of age 
who received a screening colonoscopy 
during the performance period 
0 M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 G2205 Patients with pregnancy during adjuvant 
treatment course 
i M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 G2206 Patient received adjuvant treatment course 
including both chemotherapy and her2-
targeted therapy 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2207 Reason for not administering adjuvant 
treatment course including both 
chemotherapy and her2-targeted therapy 
(e.g. poor performance status (ecog 3-4; 
karnofsky <=50), cardiac contraindications, 
insufficient renal function, insufficient hepatic 
function, other active or secondary cancer 
diagnoses, other medical contraindications, 
patients who died during initial treatment 
course or transferred during or after initial 
treatment course) 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2208 Patient did not receive adjuvant treatment 
course including both chemotherapy and 
her2-targeted therapy 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 G2209 Patient refused to participate 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2210 Residual score for the neck impairment 
not measured because the patient did 
not complete the neck fs prom at initial 
evaluation and/or near discharge, 
reason not given 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EVALUATION AND CARE MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
(G2211-G2214) 
B G2211 Visit complexity inherent to evaluation and 
management associated with medical care 
services that serve as the continuing focal 
point for all needed health care services and/ 
or with medical care services that are part 
of ongoing care related to a patient's single, 
serious condition or a complex condition. 
(add-on code, list separately in addition to 
office/outpatient evaluation and management 
visit, new or established) 
B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G2212 Prolonged office or other outpatient 
evaluation and management service(s) 
beyond the maximum required time of 
the primary procedure which has been 
selected using total time on the date of the 
primary service; each additional 15 minutes 
• New code
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
Q Not payable by Medicare 
(9 Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
by the physician or qualified healthcare 
professional, with or without direct patient 
contact (list separately in addition to CPT® 
codes 99205, 99215, 99483 for office or 
other outpatient evaluation and management 
services) (do not report G2212 on the same 
date of service as 99358, 99359, 99415, 
99416). (do not report G2212 for any time 
unit less than 15 minutes) 
N 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
B G2213 Initiation of medication for the treatment 
of opioid use disorder in the emergency 
department setting, including assessment, 
referral to ongoing care, and arranging 
access to supportive services (list separately 
in addition to code for primary procedure) 
N 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Price established using national RVUs 
B G2214 Initial or subsequent psychiatric collaborative 
care management, first 30 minutes in a 
month of behavioral health care manager 
activities, in consultation with a psychiatric 
consultant, and directed by the treating 
physician or other qualified health care 
professional 
S 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
TAKE HOME SUPPLIES (G2215-G2216) 
B G2215 Take-home supply of nasal naloxone; 2-pack 
of 4mg per 0.1 ml nasal spray (provision 
of the services by a Medicare-enrolled 
opioid treatment program); list separately in 
addition to code for primary procedure 
A 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Price established using national RVUs 
B G2216 Take-home supply of injectable naloxone 
(provision of the services by a Medicare­
enrolled opioid treatment program); list 
separately in addition to code for primary 
procedure 
A 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Price established using national RVUs 
DOCUMENTATION ASSESSMENT (REMOTE) (G2250) 
B G2250 Remote assessment of recorded video and/ 
or images submitted by an established 
patient (e.g., store and forward}, including 
interpretation with follow-up with the patient 
within 24 business hours, not originating 
from a related service provided within the 
previous 7 days nor leading to a service 
or procedure within the next 24 hours or 
soonest available appointment 
A 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
G2213 - G3002 
BRIEF COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY-BASED SERVICES 
(G2251-G2252) 
B G2251 Brief communication technology-based 
service, e.g. virtual check-in, by a qualified 
health care professional who cannot report 
evaluation and management services, 
provided to an established patient, not 
originating from a related service provided 
within the previous 7 days nor leading 
to a service or procedure within the next 
24 hours or soonest available appointment; 
5-10 minutes of clinical discussion
A 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other
Price established by carriers
B G2252 Brief communication technology-based 
service, e.g. virtual check-in, by a physician 
or other qualified health care professional 
who can report evaluation and management 
services, provided to an established patient, 
not originating from a related e/m service 
provided within the previous 7 days nor 
leading to an e/m service or procedure 
within the next 24 hours or soonest available 
appointment; 11-20 minutes of medical 
discussion 
A 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
CHRONIC PAIN MANAGEMENT AND TREATMENT SERVICES 
(G3002-G3003) 
B G3002 Chronic pain management and treatment, 
monthly bundle including, diagnosis; 
assessment and monitoring; administration 
of a validated pain rating scale or tool; the 
development, implementation, revision, and/ 
or maintenance of a person-centered care 
plan that includes strengths, goals, clinical 
needs, and desired outcomes; overall 
treatment management; facilitation and 
coordination of any necessary behavioral 
health treatment; medication management; 
pain and health literacy counseling; any 
necessary chronic pain related crisis care; 
and ongoing communication and care 
coordination between relevant practitioners 
furnishing care, e.g. physical therapy and 
occupational therapy, complementary and 
integrative approaches, and community­
based care, as appropriate. required 
initial face-to-face visit at least 30 minutes 
provided by a physician or other qualified 
health professional; first 30 minutes 
personally provided by physician or other 
qualified health care professional, per 
calendar month. (when using G3002, 
30 minutes must be met or exceeded.} 
M 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
d' Male only 
Jj1. Female only 
0 Age 
A2 · Z3 = ASC Payment Indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
t1m MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
245 
G3003 - G4024 
B G3003 Chronic pain management and treatment, 
monthly bundle including, diagnosis; 
assessment and monitoring; administration 
of a validated pain rating scale or tool; the 
development, implementation, revision, and/ 
or maintenance of a person-centered care 
plan that includes strengths, goals, clinical 
needs, and desired outcomes; overall 
treatment management; facilitation and 
coordination of any necessary behavioral 
health treatment; medication management; 
pain and health literacy counseling; any 
necessary chronic pain related crisis care; 
and ongoing communication and care 
coordination between relevant practitioners 
furnishing care, e.g. physical therapy and 
occupational therapy, complementary and 
integrative approaches, and community­
based care, as appropriate. required 
initial face-to-face visit at least 30 minutes 
provided by a physician or other qualified 
health professional; Each additional 
15 minutes of chronic pain management and 
treatment by a physician or other qualified 
health care professional, per calendar 
month. (list separately in addition to code for 
G3002. when using G3003, 15 minutes must 
be met or exceeded.) 
M 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
MIPS SPECIALTY SET (G4000-G4038) 
B G4000 Dermatology mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4001 Diagnostic radiology mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4002 Electrophysiology cardiac specialist mips 
specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4003 Emergency medicine mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4004 Endocrinology mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4005 Family medicine mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4006 Gastro-enterology mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4007 General surgery mips specialty set 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
l3I G4008 Geriatrics mips specialty set 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4009 Hospitalists mips specialty set 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m G4010 Infectious disease mips specialty set 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l3I G4011 Internal medicine mips specialty set 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4012 lnterventional radiology mips specialty set 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m G4013 Mental/behavioral and psychiatry mips 
specialty set 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4014 Nephrology mips specialty set 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4015 Neurology mips specialty set 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4016 Neurosurgical mips specialty set 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M 
M 
M 
M 
M 
M 
M 
M 
M 
l3I G4017 Nutrition/dietician mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4018 Obstetrics/gynecology mips specialty set !?- M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4019 Oncology/hematology mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4020 Ophthalmology/optometry 
mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4021 Orthopedic surgery mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4022 Otolaryngology mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4023 Pathology mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G4024 Pediatrics mips specialty set 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M 
• New code 
.A Revised code 
l3I Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
l?i) Non-covered by Medicare 
1§1 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
246 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
G4025 - G6011 
B G4025 Physical medicine mips specialty set 
M 
B G6002 Stereoscopic X-ray guidance for localization 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
of target volume for the delivery of radiation 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
therapy 
B 
B G4026 Physical therapy/occupational therapy 
CPT® Crosswalk: 19294, 77373, 77387, 
MIPS specialty set 
M 
77402, 77407, 77412 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS: I4B 
Imaging/procedure - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Price established by carriers 
B G4027 Plastic surgery mips specialty set 
M 
B G6003 Radiation treatment delivery, single treatment 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
area, single port or parallel opposed ports, 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
simple blocks or no blocks: up to 5 MeV 
B 
BETOS:P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
B G4028 Podiatry mips specialty set 
M 
Price established by carriers 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
B G6004 Radiation treatment delivery, single treatment 
Service not separately pr1ced by Part B 
area, single port or parallel opposed ports, 
B G4029 Preventive medicine mips specialty set 
M 
simple blocks or no blocks: 6-10 MeV 
B 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS: P7A 
Oncology - radiation therapy 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Price established by carriers 
B G4030 Pulmonology mips specialty set 
M 
B G6005 Radiation treatment delivery, single treatment 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
area, single port or parallel opposed ports, 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
simple blocks or no blocks: 11-19 MeV 
B 
BETOS: P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
B G4031 Radiation oncology mips specialty set 
M 
Price established by carriers 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
B G6006 Radiation treatment delivery, single treatment 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
area, single port or parallel opposed ports, 
B G4032 Rheumatology mips specialty set 
M 
simple blocks or no blocks: 20 MeV or 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
greater 
B
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BETOS: P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
B G4033 Skilled nursing facility mips specialty set 
M 
Price established by carriers 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
B G6007 Radiation treatment delivery, 2 separate 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
treatment areas, 3 or more ports on a single 
treatment area, use of multiple blocks: 
B G4034 Speech language pathology mips 
up to 5 MeV 
specialty set 
M 
BETOS:P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Price established by carriers 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G6008 Radiation treatment delivery, 2 separate 
B G4035 Thoracic surgery mips specialty set 
M 
treatment areas, 3 or more ports on a single 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
treatment area, use of multiple blocks: 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
6-10 MeV 
B 
B G4036 Urgent care mips specialty set 
M 
BETOS: P7A 
Oncology - radiation therapy 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Price established by carriers 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G6009 Radiation treatment delivery, 2 separate 
B G4037 Urology mips specialty set 
M 
treatment areas, 3 or more ports on a single 
treatment area, use of multiple blocks: 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
11-19 MeV 
B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BETOS:P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
B G4038 Vascular surgery mips specialty set 
M 
Price established by carriers 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
B G601 0 Radiation treatment delivery, 2 separate 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
treatment areas, 3 or more ports on a single 
treatment area, use of multiple blocks: 
RADIATION THERAPY SERVICES (G6001-G6017) 
20 MeV or greater 
B 
BETOS: P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
EJ G6001 Ultrasonic guidance for placement of 
Price established by carriers 
radiation therapy fields 
B 
EJ G6011 Radiation treatment delivery, 3 or more 
CPT® Crosswalk: 76978, 76979, 77373, 
separate treatment areas, custom blocking, 
77387, 77402, 77407, 77412 
tangential ports, wedges, rotational beam, 
BETOS: I3F 
Echography/ultrasonography -
compensators, electron beam; up to 5 MeV 
B 
other 
BETOS: P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Price established by carriers 
Price established by carriers 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
fl) Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
llJm MIPScode
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
247 
G6012-G8421 
B G6012 Radiation treatment delivery, 3 or more 
separate treatment areas, custom blocking, 
tangential ports, wedges, rotational beam, 
compensators, electron beam; 6-10 MeV 
B 
BETOS: P7 A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Price established by carriers 
B G6013 Radiation treatment delivery, 3 or more 
separate treatment areas, custom blocking, 
tangential ports, wedges, rotational beam, 
compensators, electron beam; 11-19 MeV B 
BETOS: P7 A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Price established by carriers 
B G6014 Radiation treatment delivery, 3 or more 
separate treatment areas, custom blocking, 
tangential ports, wedges, rotational beam, 
compensators, electron beam; 20 MeV or 
greater 
B 
BETOS: P7 A 
Oncology - radiation therapy 
Price established by carriers 
B G6015 Intensity modulated treatment delivery, single 
or multiple fields/arcs, via narrow spatially 
and temporally modulated beams, binary, 
dynamic MLC, per treatment session 
B 
BETOS: P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Price established by carriers 
B G6016 Compensator-based beam modulation 
treatment delivery of inverse planned 
treatment using 3 or more high resolution 
(milled or cast) compensator, convergent 
beam modulated fields, per treatment 
session 
BETOS: P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Price established by carriers 
B G6017 Intra-fraction localization and tracking of 
target or patient motion during delivery 
of radiation therapy (e.g., 3D positional 
tracking, gating, 3D surface tracking), 
each fraction of treatment 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
ADDITIONAL QUALITY MEASURES (G8395-G8635) 
B 
B 
B G8395 Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) >= 
40% or documentation as normal or mildly 
depressed left ventricular systolic function M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8396 Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) 
not performed or documented 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8397 Dilated macular or fundus exam performed, 
including documentation of the presence 
or absence of macular edema and 
level of severity of retinopathy 
M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G8399 Patient with documented results of a central 
dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) 
ever being performed 
M lillW 
BET0S: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8400 Patient with central dual-energy X-ray 
absorptiometry (DXA) results not 
documented, reason not given 
M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8404 Lower extremity neurological exam 
performed and documented 
M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8405 Lower extremity neurological exam not 
performed 
M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8410 Footwear evaluation performed and 
documented 
M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8415 Footwear evaluation was 
not performed 
M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8416 Clinician documented that patient was 
not an eligible candidate for footwear 
evaluation measure 
M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8417 BMI is documented above normal 
parameters and a follow-up plan is 
documented 
a M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8418 BMI is documented below normal 
parameters and a follow-up plan is 
documented 
a M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8419 BMI documented outside normal parameters, 
no follow-up plan documented, 
no reason given 
O M lillW
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8420 BMI is documented within normal 
parameters and no follow-up plan 
is required 
a M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8421 BMI not documented and no reason 
is given 
a M lillW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
D Not payable by Medicare 
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
248 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G8427 Eligible clinician attests to documenting in 
the medical record they obtained, updated, 
or reviewed the patient's current 
medications 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8428 Current list of medications not documented 
as obtained, updated, or reviewed by the 
eligible clinician, reason not given 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8430 Documentation of a medical reason(s) for 
not documenting, updating, or reviewing 
the patient's current medications list (e.g., 
patient is in an urgent or emergent medical 
situation) 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8431 Screening for depression is documented 
as being positive and a follow-up plan is 
documented 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8432 Depression screening not documented, 
reason not given 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8433 Screening for depression not completed, 
documented patient or medical reason M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8450 Beta-blocker therapy prescribed 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8451 Beta-blocker therapy for lvef <=40% not 
prescribed for reasons documented by the 
clinician (e.g., low blood pressure, fluid 
overload, asthma, patients recently 
treated with an intravenous positive inotropic 
agent, allergy, intolerance, other medical 
reasons, patient declined, other patient 
reasons) 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8452 Beta-blocker therapy not prescribed 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8465 High or very high risk of recurrence of 
prostate cancer 
cl' M m 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B GB473 Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) 
inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker 
(ARB) therapy prescribed 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G8427 - G8511 
• B G8474 Angiotensin converting enzyme (ace)
inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker 
(arb) therapy not prescribed for reasons 
documented by the clinician (e.g., allergy, 
intolerance, pregnancy, renal failure due to 
ace inhibitor, diseases of the aortic or mitral 
valve, other medical reasons) or (e.g., patient 
declined, other patient reasons) 
Mm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8475 Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) 
inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker 
(ARB) therapy not prescribed, 
reason not given 
M m
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8476 Most recent blood pressure has a systolic 
measurement of< 140 mmHg and a diastolic 
measurement of< 90 mmHg 
M 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B GB477 Most recent blood pressure has a systolic 
measurement of >=140 mmHg and/or a 
diastolic measurement of >=90 mmHg 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8478 Blood pressure measurement not performed 
or documented, reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8482 Influenza immunization administered or 
previously received 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8483 Influenza immunization was not administered 
for reasons documented by clinician 
(e.g., patient allergy or other medical 
reasons, patient declined or other patient 
reasons, vaccine not available or other 
system reasons) 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8484 Influenza immunization was not 
administered, reason not given 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8510 Screening for depression is documented as 
negative, a follow-up plan is not 
required 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
B G8511 Screening for depression documented as 
positive, follow-up plan not documented, 
reason not given 
M m 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
cl' Male only 
-9- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = AP C Status indicator 
tllm MIPScode 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
249 
G8535 - G8569 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
250 
• B G8535 Elder maltreatment screen not documented; 
documentation that patient is not eligible for 
the elder maltreatment screen at the time of 
the encounter related to one of the following 
reasons: ( 1) patient refuses to participate in 
the screening and has reasonable decisional 
capacity for self-protection, or (2) patient is in 
an urgent or emergent situation where time 
is of the essence and to delay treatment to 
perform the screening would jeopardize the 
patient's health status 
O M tllW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Servjce not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B G8536 No documentation of an elder maltreatment 
screen, reason not given 
O M tllW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B G8539 Functional outcome assessment 
documented as positive using a standardized 
tool and a care plan based on identified 
deficiencies is documented within 
two days of the functional outcome 
assessment 
o M tllW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B G8540 Functional outcome assessment not 
documented as being performed, 
documentation the patient is not eligible 
for a functional outcome assessment 
using a standardized tool at the time 
of the encounter 
o M tllW
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B G8541 Functional outcome assessment using a 
standardized tool not documented, 
reason not given 
M tllW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B G8542 Functional outcome assessment using 
a standardized tool is documented; no 
functional deficiencies identified, 
care plan not required 
o M tllW
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B G8543 Documentation of a positive 
functional outcome assessment using a 
standardized tool; care plan not documented 
within two days of assessment, 
reason not given 
o M tllW
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B G8559 Patient referred to a physician (preferably 
a physician with training in disorders of the 
ear) for an otologic evaluation 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8560 Patient has a history of active drainage from 
the ear within the previous 90 days 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8561 Patient is not eligible for the referral for 
otologic evaluation for patients with a 
history of active drainage measure 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8562 Patient does not have a history of active 
drainage from the ear within the previous 
90 days 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8563 Patient not referred to a physician (preferably 
a physician with training in disorders of the 
ear) for an otologic evaluation, reason not 
given 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8564 Patient was referred to a physician 
(preferably a physician with training 
in disorders of the ear) for an otologic 
evaluation, reason not specified) 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8565 Verification and documentation of sudden or 
rapidly progressive hearing loss 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8566 Patient is not eligible for the "referral for 
otologic evaluation for sudden or rapidly 
progressive hearing loss" measure 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8567 Patient does not have verification and 
documentation of sudden or rapidly 
progressive hearing loss 
M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8568 Patient was not referred to a physician 
(preferably a physician with training 
in disorders of the ear) for an otologic 
evaluation, reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8569 Prolonged postoperative intubation 
(> 24 hrs) required 
M tllW 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
4 Revised code 
l:;I Carrier judgment 
l:J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
(a Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G8570 Prolonged postoperative intubation(> 24 hrs) 
not required 
M cm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8575 Developed postoperative renal failure or 
required dialysis 
M cm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8576 No postoperative renal failure/dialysis 
not required 
M cm 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8577 Re-exploration required due to mediastinal 
bleeding with or without tamponade, graft 
occlusion, valve dysfunction or other 
cardiac reason 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8578 Re-exploration not required due to 
mediastinal bleeding with or without 
tamponade, graft occlusion, valve 
M cm 
dysfunction or other cardiac reason 
M cm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8598 Aspirin or another antiplatelet therapy used M 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
K!J G8599 Aspirin or another antiplatelet therapy not 
used, reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8600 Iv thrombolytic therapy initiated within 
4.5 hours(<= 270 minutes) of time last 
known well 
M cm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
4 B G8601 Iv thrombolytic therapy not initiated within 
4.5 hours(<= 270 minutes) of time last 
known well for reasons documented by 
clinician (e.g. patient enrolled in clinical 
trial for stroke, patient admitted for 
elective carotid intervention) 
M cm 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8602 Iv thrombolytic therapy not initiated within 
4.5 hours(<= 270 minutes) of time last 
known well, reason not given 
M cm 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8633 Pharmacologic therapy (other than minerals/ 
vitamins) for osteoporosis prescribed 
M cm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8635 Pharmacologic therapy for osteoporosis was 
not prescribed, reason not given 
M cm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G8570 - G8658 
QUALITY MEASURES RELATED FOR RISK-ADJUSTED 
FUNCTIONAL STAT US SCORING (G8647-G8670) 
B G8647 Residual score for the knee impairment 
successfully calculated and the score was 
equal to zero (0) or greater than 
zero (> 0) 
M cm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8648 Residual score for the knee impairment 
successfully calculated and the score 
was less than zero(< 0) 
M lmD 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8650 Residual score for the knee impairment 
not measured because the patient did not 
complete the lepf prom at initial evaluation 
and/or near discharge, reason 
not given 
M cm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8651 Residual score for the hip impairment 
successfully calculated and the score was 
equal to zero (0) or greater than 
zero (> 0) 
M lmD 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8652 Residual score for the hip impairment 
successfully calculated and the score was 
less than zero(< 0) 
M lmD 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8654 Residual score for the hip impairment not 
measured because the patient did not 
complete the lepf prom at initial evaluation 
and/or near discharge, reason 
not given 
M cm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8655 Residual score for the lower leg, foot or 
ankle impairment successfully calculated and 
the score was equal to zero (0) or greater 
than zero ( > 0) 
M lmD 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8656 Residual score for the lower leg, foot or 
ankle impairment successfully 
calculated and the score was less 
than zero(< 0) 
M lmD 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8658 Residual score for the lower leg, foot or 
ankle impairment not measured because 
the patient did not complete the lepf prom 
at initial evaluation and/or near discharge, 
reason not given 
M lmD 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
fl) Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
1imJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
cm MIPS code 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
251 
G8659 - G8722 
Procedures I Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
252 
B G8659 Residual score for the low back impairment 
successfully calculated and the score was 
equal to zero (0) or greater than 
zero(> 0) 
M t:IIm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8660 Residual score for the low back impairment 
successfully calculated and the score was 
less than zero(< 0) 
M t:IIm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8661 Risk-adjusted functional status change 
residual score for the low back impairment 
not measured because the patient did 
not complete the fs status survey near 
discharge, patient not appropriate 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8662 Residual score for the low back impairment 
not measured because the patient did not 
complete the low back fs prom at initial 
evaluation and/or near discharge, 
reason not given 
M llJm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8663 Residual score for the shoulder impairment 
successfully calculated and the score was 
equal to zero (0) or greater than 
zero (> 0) 
M llJm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8664 Residual score for the shoulder impairment 
successfully calculated and the score 
was less than zero(< 0) 
M tlim 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8666 Residual score for the shoulder impairment 
not measured because the patient did not 
complete the shoulder fs prom at initial 
evaluation and/or near discharge, 
reason not given 
M llJm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8667 Residual score for the elbow, wrist or hand 
impairment successfully calculated and the 
score was equal to zero (0) or greater 
than zero (> 0) 
M tlim 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8668 Residual score for the elbow, wrist or 
hand impairment successfully 
calculated and the score was 
less than zero(< 0) 
M tlim 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8670 Residual score for the elbow, wrist or hand 
impairment not measured because the 
patient did not complete the elbow/wrist/hand 
fs prom at initial evaluation and/or 
near discharge, reason not given 
M llJm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ADDITIONAL QUALITY MEASURES (G8694-G8970) 
B G8694 Left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) 
< = 40% or documentation of moderate or 
severe lvsd 
Mtllm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8708 Patient not prescribed antibiotic 
O M l1JW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8709 Uri episodes when the patient had competing 
diagnoses on or three days after the episode 
date (e.g., intestinal infection, pertussis, 
bacterial infection, lyme disease, otitis 
media, acute sinusitis, acute pharyngitis, 
acute tonsillitis, chronic sinusitis, infection 
of the pharynx/larynx/tonsils/adenoids, 
prostatitis, cellulitis, mastoiditis, or bone 
infections, acute lymphadenitis, impetigo, 
skin staph infections, pneumonia/gonococcal 
infections, venereal disease (syphilis, 
chlamydia, inflammatory diseases (female 
reproductive organs)), infections of the 
kidney, cystitis or uti, and acne) 
e M l1JW 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8710 Patient prescribed antibiotic 
OM tlim 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8711 Prescribed antibiotic on or within 3 days 
after the episode date 
M tlim 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8712 Antibiotic not prescribed or dispensed 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8721 pT category (primary tumor), pN category 
(regional lymph nodes), and histologic grade 
were documented in pathology report 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8722 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
including the pT category, the pN category or 
the histologic grade in the pathology report 
(e.g., re-excision without residual tumor; 
non-carcinomasanal canal) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
D Not payable by Medicare 
.A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Assaciation. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G8723 Specimen site is other than anatomic 
location of primary tumor 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8724 pT category, pN category and histologic 
grade were not documented in the pathology 
report, reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8733 Elder maltreatment screen documented as 
positive and a follow-up plan is 
documented 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8734 Elder maltreatment screen documented as 
negative, follow-up is not required 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8735 Elder maltreatment screen documented as 
positive, follow-up plan not documented, 
reason not given 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8749 Absence of signs of melanoma (tenderness, 
jaundice, localized neurologic signs 
such as weakness. or any other sign 
suggesting systemic spread) or absence of 
symptoms of melanoma (cough, dyspnea, 
pain, paresthesia, or any other symptom 
suggesting the possibility of systemic 
spread of melanoma) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8752 Most recent systolic blood pressure 
< 140 mmHg 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8753 Most recent systolic blood pressure 
>= 140 mmHg 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8754 Most recent diastolic blood pressure 
< 90 mmHg 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8755 Most recent diastolic blood pressure 
>= 90 mmHg 
MIZIW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8756 No documentation of blood pressure 
measurement, reason not given 
M  
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G8723 - G8834 
B G8783 Normal blood pressure reading documented, 
follow-up not required 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8785 Blood pressure reading not documented,. 
reason not given 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8797 Specimen site other than anatomic location 
of esophagus 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8798 Specimen site other than anatomic location 
of prostate 
rl' M  
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8806 Performance of trans-abdominal or trans­
vaginal ultrasound and pregnancy location 
documented 
!?- e M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A B G8807 Trans-abdominal or trans-vaginal ultrasound 
not performed for reasons documented by 
clinician (e.g., patient has a documented 
intrauterine pregnancy [iupl) 
!?- (.) M IZ!W 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8808 Trans-abdominal or trans-vaginal ultrasound 
not performed, reason not given 
!?- M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8815 Documented reason in the medical records 
for why the statin therapy was not prescribed 
(i.e., lower extremity bypass was for a patient 
with non-atherosclerotic disease) 
M
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8816 Stalin medication prescribed at discharge M
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8817 Stalin therapy not prescribed at discharge, 
reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8826 Patient discharged to home no later than 
post-operative day #2 following evar 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8833 Patient not discharged to home by post-
operative day #2 following evar 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8834 Patient discharged to home no later than 
post-operative day #2 following CEA 
M IZIW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
rl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
fl Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2- Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
IZ!W MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
253 
G8838 - G8858 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
254 
B G8838 Patient not discharged to home by post-
operative day #2 following CEA 
M mm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8839 Sleep apnea symptoms assessed, including 
presence or absence of snoring and 
daytime sleepiness 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8840 Documentation of reason(s) for not 
documenting an assessment of sleep 
symptoms (e.g., patient didn't have initial 
daytime sleepiness, patient visited between 
initial testing and initiation of therapy) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8841 Sleep apnea symptoms not assessed, 
reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8842 Apnea hypopnea index (ahi), respiratory 
disturbance index (rdi) or respiratory event 
index (rei) documented or measured within 
2 months of initial evaluation for suspected 
obstructive sleep apnea 
M mm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8843 Documentation of reason(s) for not 
measuring an apnea hypopnea index (ahi), 
a respiratory disturbance index (rdi), or a 
respiratory event index (rei) within 2 months 
of initial evaluation for suspected obstructive 
sleep apnea (e.g., medical, neurological, or 
psychiatric disease that prohibits successful 
completion of a sleep study, patients for 
whom a sleep study would present a bigger 
risk than benefit or would pose an undue 
burden, dementia, patients who decline ahi/ 
rdi/rei measurement, patients who had a 
financial reason for not completing testing, 
test was ordered but not completed, patients 
decline because their insurance (payer) 
does not cover the expense)) 
M mm 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8844 Apnea hypopnea index (ahi), respiratory 
disturbance index (rdi), or respiratory event 
index (rei) not documented or measured 
within 2 months of initial evaluation for 
suspected obstructive sleep apnea, 
reason not given 
M mm 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8845 Positive airway pressure therapy 
prescribed 
M 
BETOS: MSB 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8846 Moderate or severe obstructive sleep apnea 
(apnea hypopnea index (AHi) or respiratory 
disturbance index (ROI) of 15 or greater) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8849 Documentation of reason(s) for not 
prescribing positive airway pressure therapy 
(e.g., patient unable to tolerate, alternative 
therapies use, patient declined, financial, 
insurance coverage) 
M 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8850 Positive airway pressure therapy not 
prescribed, reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
.& B G8851 Adherence to therapy was assessed at least 
annually through an objective informatics 
system or through self-reporting 
(if objective reporting is not available, 
documented) 
M mm 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.& B G8854 Documentation of reason(s) for not 
objectively reporting adherence to evidence­
based therapy (e.g., patients who have 
been diagnosed with a terminal or advanced 
disease with an expected life sµan of less 
than 6 months, patients who decline therapy, 
patients who do not return for follow-up at 
least annually, patients unable to access/ 
afford therapy, patient's insurance will not 
cover therapy) 
M mm 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
• B G8855 Adherence to therapy was not assessed
at least annually through an objective 
informatics system or through self-reporting 
(if objective reporting is not available), 
reason not given 
M mm 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8856 Referral to a physician for an otologic 
evaluation performed 
M mm 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8857 Patient is not eligible for the referral for 
otologic evaluation measure (e.g., patients 
who are already under the care of a 
physician for acute or chronic 
dizziness) 
M mm 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8858 Referral to a physician for an otologic 
evaluation not performed, reason not 
given 
Mmm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
.& Revised code 
Ki Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!i) Non-covered by Medicare 
E) Non-covered by Medicare statute
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
l!I G8863 Patients not assessed for risk of bone loss, 
reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G8864 Pneumococcal vaccine administered or 
previously received 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G8865 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not administering or previously receiving 
pneumococcal vaccine (e.g., patient allergic 
reaction, potential adverse drug reaction) 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G8866 Documentation of patient reason(s) for 
not administering or previously receiving 
pneumococcal vaccine (e.g., patient 
refusal) 
M 
BETOS: MSB Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G8867 Pneumococcal vaccine not administered or 
previously received, reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G8869 Patient has documented immunity to 
hepatitis Band initiating anti-TNF 
therapy 
M IZlli3 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G8875 Clinician diagnosed breast cancer 
preoperatively by a minimally invasive 
biopsy method 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G8876 Documentation of reason(s) for not 
performing minimally invasive biopsy to 
diagnose breast cancer preoperatively 
(e.g., lesion too close to skin, implant, chest 
wall, etc., lesion could not be adequately 
visualized for needle biopsy, patient 
condition prevents needle biopsy [weight, 
breast thickness, etc.], duct excision 
without imaging abnormality, prophylactic 
mastectomy, reduction mammoplasty, 
excisional biopsy performed by another 
physician) 
M 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G8877 Clinician did not attempt to achieve the 
diagnosis of breast cancer preoperatively by 
a minimally invasive biopsy method, 
reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G8878 Sentinel lymph node biopsy procedure 
performed 
M IZlli3 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G8863 - G8912 
l!I G8880 Documentation of reason(s) sentinel lymph 
node biopsy not performed (e.g., reasons 
could include but not limited to; non-invasive 
cancer, incidental discovery of breast cancer 
on prophylactic mastectomy, incidental 
discovery of breast cancer on reduction 
mammoplasty, pre-operative biopsy proven 
lymph node (In) metastases, inflammatory 
carcinoma, stage 3 locally advanced cancer, 
recurrent invasive breast cancer, clinically 
node positive after neoadjuvant systemic 
therapy, patient refusal after informed 
consent, patient with significant age, 
comorbidities, or limited life expectancy and 
favorable tumor; adjuvant systemic therapy 
unlikely to change) 
M IZlli3 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8881 Stage of breast cancer is greater than 
T1 N0M0 or T3N0M0 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8882 Sentinel lymph node biopsy procedure not 
performed, reason not given 
M IZlli3 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B GB907 Patient documented not to have experienced 
any of the following evenls: a burn prior to 
discharge; a fall within the facility; wrong site/ 
side/patient/procedure/implant event; or a 
hospital transfer or hospital admission 
upon discharge from the facility 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8908 Patient documented to have received a 
burn prior to discharge 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8909 Patient documented not to have received a 
burn prior to discharge 
M 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8910 Patient documented to have experienced a 
fall within ASC 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8911 Patient documented not to have experienced 
a fall within ambulatory surgical center 
M 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8912 Patient documented to have experienced a 
wrong site, wrong side, wrong patient, wrong 
procedure or wrong implant event 
M 
BETOS: M58 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
lilD Paid under the DME fee schedule 
IZlli3 MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
255 
G8913 - G8958 
B G8913 Patient documented not to have experienced 
a wrong site, wrong side, wrong patient, 
wrong procedure or wrong implant event 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8914 Patient documented to have experienced a 
hospital transfer or hospital admission upon 
discharge from ASC 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8915 Patient documented not to have experienced 
a hospital transfer or hospital admission 
upon discharge from ASC 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8916 Patient with preoperative order for IV 
antibiotic surgical site infection (SSI) 
prophylaxis, antibiotic initiated on time 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8917 Patient with preoperative order for IV 
antibiotic surgical site infection (SSI) 
prophylaxis, antibiotic not initiated on time M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8918 Patient without preoperative order for 
IV antibiotic surgical site infection (SSI) 
prophylaxis 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8923 Left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) <= 
40% or documentation of moderately or 
severely depressed left ventricular systolic 
function 
M £lm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A B G8924 Spirometry results documented 
(fev1/fvc < 70%) 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8934 Left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) <=40% 
or documentation of moderately or severely 
depressed left ventricular systolic 
function 
M i;im 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8935 Clinician prescribed angiotensin converting 
enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin 
receptor blocker (ARB) therapy 
M i;im 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G8936 Clinician documented that patient was not an
eligible candidate for angiotensin converting 
enzyme (ace) inhibitor or angiotensin 
receptor blocker (arb) therapy (eg, allergy, 
intolerance, pregnancy, renal failure due to 
ace inhibitor, diseases of the aortic or mitral 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
valve, other medical reasons) or (eg, patient 
declined, other patient reasons) 
M £lm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8937 Clinician did not prescribe angiotensin 
converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or 
angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) 
therapy, reason not given 
o M -
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A B G8942 Functional outcome assessment using a 
standardized tool is documented within the 
previous 30 days and a care plan, based 
on identified deficiencies is documented 
within two days of the functional outcome 
assessment 
o M -
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8944 AJCC melanoma cancer Stage 0 through IIC 
melanoma 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8946 Minimally invasive biopsy method attempted 
but not diagnostic of breast cancer (e.g., high 
risk lesion of breast such as atypical ductal 
hyperplasia, lobular neoplasia, atypical 
lobular hyperplasia, lobular carcinoma in situ, 
atypical columnar hyperplasia, flat epithelial 
atypia, radial scar, complex sclerosing lesion, 
papillary lesion, or any lesion with spindle 
cells) 
o M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8950 Elevated or hypertensive blood pressure 
reading documented, and the indicated 
follow-up is documented 
M £lm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8952 Elevated or hypertensive blood pressure 
reading documented, indicated follow-up 
not documented, reason not given 
M £lm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G89?5 Most recent assessment of adequacy of 
volume management documented 
o M
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8956 Patient receiving maintenance hemodialysis 
in an outpatient dialysis facility 
o M
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8958 Assessment of adequacy of volume 
management not documented, reason not 
given 
o M
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
D Not payable by Medicare 
A Revised code 
• B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
256 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G8961 Cardiac stress imaging test primarily 
performed on low-risk surgery patient for 
preoperative evaluation within 30 days 
preceding this surgery 
e M mm
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8962 Cardiac stress imaging test performed on 
patient for any reason including those who 
did not have low risk surgery or test that was 
performed more than 30 days preceding low 
risk surgery 
e M mm
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8965 Cardiac stress imaging test primarily 
performed on low CHO risk patient 
for initial detection and 
risk assessment 
e M mm
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8966 Cardiac stress imaging test performed on 
symptomatic or higher than low CHO risk 
patient or for any reason other than initial 
detection and risk assessment 
e M IIJm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8967 Fda approved oral anticoagulant is 
prescribed 
e M 11Jm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A B G8968 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
prescribing an fda-approved anticoagulant 
(e.g., present or planned atrial appendage 
occlusion or ligation or patient being 
currently enrolled in a clinical trial 
related to af/atrial flutter treatment) 
e M mm
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8969 Documentation of patient reason(s) for 
not prescribing an oral anticoagulant 
that is fda approved for the prevention of 
thromboembolism (e.g., patient preference 
for not receiving anticoagulation) 
e M mm
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G8970 No risk factors or one moderate risk 
factor for thromboembolism 
e M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
MEDICARE COORDINATED CARE DEMONSTRATION (MCCD) 
SERVICES (G9001-G9012) 
B G9001 Coordinated care fee, initial rate 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G8961 - G9012 
B G9002 Coordinated care fee, maintenance rate 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9003 Coordinated care fee, risk adjusted high, 
initial 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9004 Coordinated care fee, risk adjusted low, 
initial 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9005 Coordinated care fee, risk adjusted 
maintenance 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9006 Coordinated care fee, home monitoring 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9007 Coordinated care fee, scheduled team 
conference 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9008 Coordinated care fee, physician coordinated 
care oversight services 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9009 Coordinated care fee, risk adjusted 
maintenance, level 3 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9010 Coordinated care fee, risk adjusted 
maintenance, level 4 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9011 Coordinated care fee, risk adjusted 
maintenance, level 5 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9012 Other specified case management service 
B 
not elsewhere classified 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
8 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
mm MIPS code 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
llm) Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
257 
G9013 - G9061 
MEDICARE DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS (G9013-G9140) 
m G9013 ESRD demo basic bundle level I 
E1 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li9 G9014 ESRD demo expanded bundle inluding 
venous access and related services 
E1 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
li'a G9016 Smoking cessation counseling, individual, 
in the absence of or in addition to any other 
evaluation and management service, per 
session (6-10 minutes) [demo project code 
only] 
E1 
CPT® Crosswalk: 99406 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9050 Oncology; primary focus of visit; work-up, 
evaluation, or staging at the time of cancer 
diagnosis or recurrence 
(for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9051 Oncology; primary focus of visit; treatment 
decision-making after disease is staged or 
restaged, discussion of treatment options, 
supervising/coordinating active cancer 
directed therapy or managing consequences 
of cancer directed therapy (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9052 Oncology; primary focus of visit; surveillance 
for disease recurrence for patient who has 
completed definitive cancer-directed therapy 
and currently lacks evidence of recurrent 
disease; cancer directed therapy might 
be considered in the future (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9053 Oncology; primary focus of visit; expectant 
management of patient with evidence of 
cancer for whom no cancer directed therapy 
is being administered or arranged at present; 
cancer directed therapy might be considered 
in the future (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
D G9054 Oncology; primary focus of visit; supervising, 
coordinating or managing care of patient with 
terminal cancer or for whom other medical 
illness prevents further cancer treatment; 
includes symptom management, end-of-life 
care planning, management of palliative 
therapies (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
E 1 IIJW 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9055 Oncology; primary focus of visit; other, 
unspecified service not otherwise listed (for 
use in a Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9056 Oncology; practice guidelines; management 
adheres to guidelines (for use in a Medicare­
approved demonstration project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9057 Oncology; practice guidelines; management 
differs from guidelines as a result of patient 
enrollment in an institutional review board 
approved clinical trial (for use in a Medicare­
approved demonstration project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9058 Oncology; practice guidelines; management 
differs from guidelines because the 
treating physician disagrees with guideline 
recommendations (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9059 Oncology; practice guidelines; management 
differs from guidelines because the patient, 
after being offered treatment consistent 
with guidelines, has opted for alternative 
treatment or management, including no 
treatment (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9060 Oncology; practice guidelines; management 
differs from guidelines for reason(s) 
associated with patient comorbid illness 
or performance status not factored into 
guidelines (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D G9061 Oncology; practice guidelines; patient's 
condition not addressed by available 
guidelines (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
D Not payable by Medicare 
.a. Revised code 
I! Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
258 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures I Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
D G9062 Oncology; practice guidelines; management 
differs from guidelines for other reason(s) 
not listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
E1 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9063 Oncology; disease status; limited to non­
small cell lung cancer; extent of disease 
initially established as Stage I (prior to neo­
adjuvant therapy, if any) with no evidence 
of disease progression, recurrence, or 
metastases (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9064 Oncology; disease status; limited to non­
small cell lung cancer; extent of disease 
initially established as Stage II (prior to neo­
adjuvant therapy, if any) with no evidence 
of disease progression, recurrence, or 
metastases (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9065 Oncology; disease status; limited to non­
small cell lung cancer; extent of disease 
initially established as Stage Ill A (prior 
to neo-adjuvant therapy, if any) with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9066 Oncology; disease status; limited to non­
small cell lung cancer; Stage Ill B- IV at 
diagnosis, metastatic, locally recurrent, or 
progressive (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9067 Oncology; disease status; limited to non­
small cell lung cancer; extent of disease 
unknown, staging in progress, or not 
listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9068 Oncology; disease status; limited to small 
cell and combined small cell/non-small 
cell; extent of disease initially established 
as limited with no evidence of disease 
progression, recurrence, or metastases 
(for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9062- G9074 
B G9069 Oncology; disease status; small cell lung 
cancer, limited to small cell and combined 
small cell/non-small cell; extensive Stage at 
diagnosis, metastatic, locally recurrent, or 
progressive (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9070 Oncology; disease status; small cell lung 
cancer, limited to small cell and combined 
small cell/non-small; extent of disease 
unknown, staging in progress, or not 
listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9071 Oncology; disease status; invasive female 
breast cancer (does not include ductal 
carcinoma in situ); adenocarcinoma as 
predominant cell type; Stage I or Stage IIA­
IIB; or T3, N1, MO; and ER and/or pr positive; 
with no evidence of disease progression, 
recurrence, or metastases (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
la G9072 Oncology; disease status; invasive female 
breast cancer (does not include ductal 
carcinoma in situ); adenocarcinoma as 
predominant cell type; Stage I, or Stage IIA­
IIB; or T3, N1, MO; and ER and PR negative; 
with no evidence of disease progression, 
recurrence, or metastases (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9073 Oncology; disease status; invasive female 
breast cancer (does not include ductal 
carcinoma in situ); adenocarcinoma as 
predominant cell type; Stage IIIA-11IB; and 
not T3, N 1, MO; and ER and/or PR positive; 
with no evidence of disease progression, 
recurrence, or metastases (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
la G9074 Oncology; disease status; invasive female 
breast cancer (does not include ductal 
carcinoma in situ); adenocarcinoma as 
predominant cell type; Stage IIIA-11IB; and 
not T3, N 1, MO; and ER and PR negative; 
with no evidence of disease progression, 
recurrence, or metastases (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration project) M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
,I' Male only 
lf Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
lm1 MIPScode
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
259 
G907S - G9091 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
260 
B G9075 Oncology; disease status; invasive female 
breast cancer (does not include ductal 
carcinoma in situ); adenocarcinoma as 
predominant cell type; M1 at diagnosis, 
metastatic, locally recurrent, or progressive 
(for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P78 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9077 Oncology; disease status; prostate cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma as predominant 
cell type; T1-T3C and gleason 2-7 and 
PSA < or equal to 20 at diagnosis with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
cl' M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9078 Oncology; disease status; prostate cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma as predominant 
cell type; T2 or T3A Gleason 8-10 or PSA > 
20 at diagnosis with no evidence of disease 
progression, recurrence, or metastases 
(for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
cl' M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9079 Oncology; disease status; prostate cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma as predominant 
cell type; T3B-T4, any N; any T, N1 at 
diagnosis with no evidence of disease 
progression, recurrence, or metastases 
(for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
cl' M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9080 Oncology; disease status; prostate cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma; after initial 
treatment with rising PSA or failure of PSA 
decline (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
d" M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9083 Oncology; disease status; prostate cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma; extent of 
disease unknown, staging in progress, or 
not listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
d" M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9084 Oncology; disease status; colon cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; extent of disease 
initially established as T1-3, NO, MO with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9085 Oncology; disease status; colon cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; extent of disease 
initially established as T4, NO, MO with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9086 Oncology; disease status; colon cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; extent of disease 
initially established as T1-4, N1-2, MO 
with no evidence of disease progression, 
recurrence, or metastases (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration project) M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9087 Oncology; disease status; colon cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; M1 at diagnosis, 
metastatic, locally recurrent, or progressive 
with current clinical, radiologic, or 
biochemical evidence of disease (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration project) M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9088 Oncology; disease status; colon cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; M1 at diagnosis, 
metastatic, locally recurrent, or progressive 
without current clinical, radiologic, or 
biochemical evidence of disease (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration project) M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9089 Oncology; disease status; colon cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; extent of disease 
unknown, staging in progress, or not 
listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9090 Oncology; disease status; rectal cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; extent of disease 
initially established as T1-2, NO, MO (prior 
to neo-adjuvant therapy, if any) with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9091 Oncology; disease status; rectal cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; extent of disease 
initially established as T3, NO, MO (prior 
to neo-adjuvant therapy, if any) with no 
• Newcode
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9092 Oncology; disease status; rectal cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; extent of disease 
initially established as T1-3, N1-2, MO (prior 
to neo-adjuvant therapy, if any) with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9093 Oncology; disease status; rectal cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; extent of disease 
initially established as T4, any N, MO (prior 
to neo-adjuvant therapy, if any) with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9094 Oncology; disease status; rectal cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; M1 at diagnosis, 
metastatic, locally recurrent, or progressive 
(for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9095 Oncology; disease status; rectal cancer, 
limited to invasive cancer, adenocarcinoma 
as predominant cell type; extent of disease 
unknown, staging in progress, or not 
listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9096 Oncology; disease status; esophageal 
cancer, limited to adenocarcinoma or 
squamous cell carcinoma as predominant 
cell type; extent of disease initially 
established as T1-T3, NO-N1 or NX (prior 
to neo-adjuvant therapy, if any) with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9097 Oncology; disease status; esophageal 
cancer, limited to adenocarcinoma or 
squamous cell carcinoma as predominant 
cell type; extent of disease initially 
established as T4, any N, MO (prior to neo­
adjuvant therapy, if any) with no evidence 
of disease progression, recurrence, or 
G9092 - G9103 
metastases (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9098 Oncology; disease status; esophageal 
cancer, limited to adenocarcinoma or 
squamous cell carcinoma as predominant 
cell type; M1 at diagnosis, metastatic, 
locally recurrent, or progressive (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9099 Oncology; disease status; esophageal 
cancer, limited to adenocarcinoma or 
squamous cell carcinoma as predominant 
cell type; extent of disease unknown, 
staging in progress, or not listed (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9100 Oncology; disease status; gastric cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma as predominant 
cell type; post RO resection (with or without 
neoadjuvant therapy) with no evidence 
of disease recurrence, progression, or 
metastases (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9101 Oncology; disease status; gastric cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma as predominant 
cell type; post R1 or R2 resection (with 
or without neoadjuvant therapy) with 
no evidence of disease progression, or 
metastases (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9102 Oncology; disease status; gastric cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma as predominant 
cell type; clinical or pathologic MO, 
unresectable with no evidence of disease 
progression, or metastases (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration project) M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
18 G9103 Oncology; disease status; gastric cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma as predominant 
cell type; clinical or pathologic M1 at 
diagnosis, metastatic, locally recurrent, or 
progressive (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
« Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
GD Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
tlIW MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
261 
G9104- G9117 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
262 
B G9104 Oncology; disease status; gastric cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma as predominant 
cell type; extent of disease unknown, 
staging in progress, or not listed (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration project) M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9105 Oncology; disease status; pancreatic cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma as predominant 
cell type; post RO resection without evidence 
of disease progression, recurrence, or 
metastases (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9106 Oncology; disease status; pancreatic cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma; post R1 or 
R2 resection with no evidence of disease 
progression, or metastases (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration project) M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9107 Oncology; disease status; pancreatic cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma; unresectable 
at diagnosis, M1 at diagnosis, metastatic, 
locally recurrent, or progressive (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration project) M
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9108 Oncology; disease status; pancreatic 
cancer, limited to adenocarcinoma; extent 
of disease unknown, staging in progress, or 
not listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9109 Oncology; disease status; head and neck 
cancer, limited to cancers of oral cavity, 
pharynx and larynx with squamous cell as 
predominant cell type; extent of disease 
initially established as T1-T2 and NO, MO 
(prior to neo-adjuvant therapy, if any) with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9110 Oncology; disease status; head and neck 
cancer, limited to cancers of oral cavity, 
pharynx and larynx with squamous cell as 
predominant cell type; extent of disease 
initially established as T3-4 and/or N 1-3, MO 
(prior to neo-adjuvant therapy, if any) with no 
evidence of disease progression, recurrence, 
or metastases (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9111 Oncology; disease status; head and 
neck cancer, limited to cancers of oral 
cavity, pharynx and larynx with squamous 
cell as predominant cell type; M1 at 
diagnosis, metastatic, locally recurrent, or 
progressive (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9112 Oncology; disease status; head and neck 
cancer, limited to cancers of oral cavity, 
pharynx and larynx with squamous cell as 
predominant cell type; extent of disease 
unknown, staging in progress, or not 
listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9113 Oncology; disease status; ovarian cancer, 
limited to epithelial cancer; pathologic Stage 
IA-B (Grade 1) without evidence of disease 
progression, recurrence, or metastases 
(for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
!?- M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9114 Oncology; disease status; ovarian cancer, 
limited to epithelial cancer; pathologic Stage 
IA-B (Grade 2-3); or Stage IC (all grades); 
or Stage II; without evidence of disease 
progression, recurrence, or metastases 
(for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
!?- M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9115 Oncology; disease status; ovarian cancer, 
limited to epithelial cancer; pathologic Stage 
Ill-IV; without evidence of progression, 
recurrence, or metastases (for use in a 
Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
!?- M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9116 Oncology; disease status; ovarian cancer, 
limited to epithelial cancer; evidence of 
disease progression, or recurrence, and/or 
platinum resistance (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
!?- M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9117 Oncology; disease status; ovarian cancer, 
limited to epithelial cancer; extent of 
disease unknown, staging in progress, or 
not listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
!?- M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
4 Revised code 
Ki Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!il Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G9123 Oncology; disease status; chronic 
myelogenous leukemia, limited to 
Philadelphia chromosome positive and/ 
or BCR-ABL positive; chronic phase not 
in hematologic, cytogenetic, or molecular 
remission (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9124 Oncology; disease status; chronic 
myelogenous leukemia, limited to 
Philadelphia chromosome positive and/or 
BCR-ABL positive; accelerated phase not 
in hematologic cytogenetic, or molecular 
remission (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9125 Oncology; disease status; chronic 
myelogenous leukemia, limited to 
Philadelphia chromosome positive and/ 
or BCR-ABL positive; blast phase not in 
hematologic, cytogenetic, or molecular 
remission (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9126 Oncology; disease status; chronic 
myelogenous leukemia, limited to 
Philadelphia chromosome positive and/ 
or BCR-ABL positive; in hematologic, 
cytogenetic, or molecular remission (for 
use in a Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9128 Oncology; disease status; limited to multiple 
myeloma, systemic disease; smoldering, 
Stage I (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9129 Oncology; disease status; limited to multiple 
myeloma, systemic disease; Stage II or 
higher (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9130 Oncology; disease status; limited to multiple 
myeloma, systemic disease; extent of 
disease unknown, staging in progress, or 
not listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9131 Oncology; disease status; invasive female 
breast cancer ( does not include ductal 
carcinoma in situ); adenocarcinoma as 
G9123 - G9138 
predominant cell type; extent of disease 
unknown, staging in progress, or not 
listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9132 Oncology; disease status; prostate cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma; hormone­
refractory/androgen-independent (e.g., rising 
PSA on anti-androgen therapy or post­
orchiectomy); clinical metastases (for use in 
a Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
d" M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9133 Oncology; disease status; prostate cancer, 
limited to adenocarcinoma; hormone­
responsive; clinical metastases or M1 at 
diagnosis (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
d" M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9134 Oncology; disease status; non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma, any cellular classification; 
Stage i, II at diagnosis, not relapsed, not 
refractory (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9135 Oncology; disease status; non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma, any cellular classification; Stage 
Ill, IV, not relapsed, not refractory (for use in 
a Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9136 Oncology; disease status; non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma, transformed from original cellular 
diagnosis to a second cellular classification 
(for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9137 Oncology; disease status; non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma, any cellular classification; 
relapsed/refractory (for use in a Medicare-
approved demonstration project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9138 Oncology; disease status; non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma, any cellular classification; 
diagnostic evaluation, stage not determined, 
evaluation of possible relapse or non­
response to therapy, or not listed (for use in 
a Medicare-approved demonstration 
project) 
M 
BETOS: P?B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
.\?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
EllJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
- MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
263 
G9139-G9187 
B G9139 Oncology; disease status; chronic 
myelogenous leukemia, limited to 
Philadelphia chromosome positive and/ 
or BCR-ABL positive; extent of disease 
unknown, staging in progress, not 
listed (for use in a Medicare-approved 
demonstration project) 
BETOS: P7B 
Oncology - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M 
B G9140 Frontier extended stay clinic demonstration; 
for a patient stay in a clinic approved for the 
CMS demonstration project; the following 
measures should be present: the stay must 
be equal to or greater than 4 hours; weather 
or other conditions must prevent transfer or 
the case falls into a category of monitoring 
and observation cases that are permitted 
by the rules of the demonstration; there is 
a maximum frontier extended stay clinic 
(FESC) visit of 48 hours, except in the case 
when weather or other conditions prevent 
transfer; payment is made on each period 
up to 4 hours, after the first 4 hours 
A 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
WARFARIN RESPONSIVENESS TESTING (G9143) 
B G9143 Warfarin responsiveness testing by genetic 
technique using any method, any number of 
specimen(s) 
N 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2010, Q1 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 250.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 250.2 
OUTPATIENT INTRAVENOUS INSULIN TREATMENT (G9147) 
li!jl G9147 Outpatient intravenous insulin treatment 
(OIVIT) either pulsatile or continuous, 
by any means, guided by the results of 
measurements for: respiratory quotient; 
and/or, urine urea nitrogen (UUN); and/or, 
arterial, venous or capillary glucose; 
and/or potassium concentration 
E1 
BETOS: P5E Ambulatory procedures - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2010, Q1 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 320.2; 100-4, 
Chapter-4, 320.1 
PRIMARY CARE QUALITY MEASURES (G9148-G9153) 
B G9148 National Committee for Quality Assurance -
Level 1 medical home 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G9149 National Committee for Quality Assurance -
Level 2 medical home 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9150 National Committee for Quality Assurance -
Level 3 medical home 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9151 MAPCP Demonstration - state provided 
services 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9152 MAPCP Demonstration - Community 
Health Teams 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9153 MAPCP Demonstration - Physician 
Incentive Pool 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PROVIDER ASSESSMENT FOR WHEELCHAIR (G9156) 
B G9156 Evaluation for wheelchair requiring face to 
face visit with physician 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
DIAGNOSTIC CARDIAC DOPPLER ULTRASOUND (G9157) 
B G9157 Transesophageal Doppler Measurement Of 
Cardiac Output (Including Probe Placement, 
Image Acquisition, And Interpretation Per 
Course Of Treatment) For Monitoring 
Purposes 
B 
BETOS: T2C 
Other tests - EKG monitoring 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 310; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 310.2; 100-4, Chapter-32, 310.3 
BUNDLED PAYMENT CARE (G9187) 
B G9187 Bundled payments for care improvement 
initiative home visit for patient assessment 
performed by a qualified health care 
professional for individuals not considered 
homebound including, but not limited to, 
assessment of safety, falls, clinical status, 
fluid status, medication reconciliation/ 
management, patient compliance with 
orders/plan of care, performance of 
activities of daily living, appropriateness of 
care setting; (for use only in the Medicare­
approved bundled payments for care 
improvement initiative); may not be billed 
for a 30-day period covered by a transitional 
care management code 
E1 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!il Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
264 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (GOOO8-G9999) 
ADDITIONAL ASSORTED QUALITY MEASURES 
(G9188-G9893) 
B G9188 Beta-blocker therapy not prescribed, 
reason not given 
M llJm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9189 Beta-blocker therapy prescribed or 
currently being taken 
M tllW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9190 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
prescribing beta-blocker therapy 
(e.g., allergy, intolerance, other medical 
reasons) 
M llJm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9191 Documentation of patient reason(s) for 
not prescribing beta-blocker therapy (e.g., 
patient declined, other patient reasons) M llJm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9212 DSM-IVTM criteria for major depressive 
disorder documented at the initial 
evaluation 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M 
B G9213 DSM-IV-TR criteria for major depressive 
disorder not documented at the initial 
evaluation, reason not otherwise specified M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9223 Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia 
prophylaxis prescribed within 3 months of 
low CD4+ cell count below 500 cells/mm3 
or a CD4 percentage below 15% 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9225 Foot exam was not performed, reason not 
given 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9226 Foot examination performed (includes 
examination through visual inspection, 
sensory exam with 10-g monofilament plus 
testing any one of the following: vibration 
using 128-Hz tuning fork, pinprick sensation, 
ankle reflexes, or vibration perception 
threshold, and pulse exam; report when 
all of the 3 components are completed) 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9227 Functional outcome assessment 
documented, care plan not documented, 
documentation the patient is not eligible for a 
care plan at the time of the encounter M llJm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9188 - G927 4 
B G9228 Chlamydia, gonorrhea and syphilis screening 
results documented (report when results are 
present for all of the 3 screenings) 
M tllW 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9230 Chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis not 
screened, reason not given 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9231 Documentation of end stage renal disease 
(ESRD), dialysis, renal transplant before or 
during the measurement period or pregnancy 
during the measurement period 
o M tllm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9242 Documentation of viral load equal to or 
greater than 200 copies/ml or viral load 
not performed 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9243 Documentation of viral load less than 
200 copies/ml 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9246 Patient did not have at least one medical 
visit in each 6 month period of the 24 month 
measurement period, with a minimum of 
60 days between medical visits 
M tllm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9247 Patient had at least one medical visit in 
each 6 month period of the 24 month 
measurement period, with a minimum of 
60 days between medical visits 
M cm
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9254 Documentation of patient discharged to 
home later than post-operative 
day 2 following CAS 
M llJm 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9255 Documentation of patient discharged to 
home no later than post operative 
day 2 following CAS 
M llJm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9273 Blood pressure has a systolic value of < 140 
and a diastolic value of < 90 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9274 Blood pressure has a systolic value of =140 
and a diastolic value of= 90 or systolic value 
< 140 and diastolic value = 90 or systolic 
value = 140 and diastolic value< 90 
M 
BETOS: M5B Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
- Female only 
fl Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
tllm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
265 
G9275 - G9292 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
266 
B G9275 Documentation that patient is a current 
non-tobacco user 
O M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9276 Documentation that patient is a current 
tobacco user 
O M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9277 Documentation that the patient is on daily 
aspirin or anti-platelet or has documentation 
of a valid contraindication or exception 
to aspirin/anti-platelet; contraindications/ 
exceptions include anti-coagulant use, 
allergy to aspirin or anti-platelets, history of 
gastrointestinal bleed and bleeding disorder; 
additionally, the following exceptions 
documented by the physician as a reason 
for not taking daily aspirin or anti-platelet 
are acceptable (use of non-steroidal anti­
inflammatory agents, documented risk for 
drug interaction, uncontrolled hypertension 
defined as >180 systolic or >110 diastolic or 
gastroesophageal reflux) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9278 Documentation that the patient is not on 
daily aspirin or anti-platelet regimen 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9279 Pneumococcal screening performed and 
documentation of vaccination received prior 
to discharge 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9280 Pneumococcal vaccination not administered 
prior to discharge, reason not specified 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9281 Screening performed and documentation 
that vaccination not indicated/patient 
refusal 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9282 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
reporting the histological type or NSCLC-NOS 
classification with an explanation (e.g., biopsy 
taken for other purposes in a patient with a 
history of non-small cell lung cancer or other 
documented medical reasons) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9283 Non small cell lung cancer biopsy and 
cytology specimen report documents 
classification into specific histologic type 
or classified as NSCLC-NOS with an 
explanation 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9284 Non small cell lung cancer biopsy and 
cytology specimen report does not document 
classification into specific histologic type 
or classified as NSCLC-NOS with an 
explanation 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9285 Specimen site other than anatomic location 
of lung or is not classified as non small cell 
lung cancer 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9286 Antibiotic regimen prescribed within10 days 
after onset of symptoms 
M 1ml 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9287 Antibiotic regimen not prescribed within 
1 O days after onset of symptoms 
M 1ml 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9288 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
reporting the histological type or NSCLC­
NOS classification with an explanation 
(e.g., a solitary fibrous tumor in a person with 
a history of non-small cell carcinoma or other 
documented medical reasons ) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9289 Non small cell lung cancer biopsy and 
cytology specimen report documents 
classification into specific histologic type 
or classified as NSCLC-NOS with an 
explanation 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9290 Non small cell lung cancer biopsy and 
cytology specimen report does not document 
classification into specific histologic type 
or classified as NSCLC-NOS with an 
explanation 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9291 Specimen site other than anatomic location 
of lung, is not classified as non small cell 
lung cancer or classified as NSCLC-NOS 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9292 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not reporting pt category and a statement 
on thickness and ulceration and for PT1, 
mitotic rate (e.g., negative skin biopsies in a 
patient with a history of melanoma or other 
documented medical reasons) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
D Not payable by Medicare 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
Iii) Non-covered by Medicare 
 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999} 
B G9293 Pathology report does not include the pt 
category and a statement on thickness and 
ulceration and for PT1, mitotic rate 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9294 Pathology report includes the pt category 
and a statement on thickness and ulceration 
and for PT1, mitotic rate 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9295 Specimen site other than anatomic 
cutaneous location 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9296 Patients with documented shared decision­
making including discussion of conservative 
(non-surgical) therapy (e.g., nsaids, 
analgesics, weight loss, exercise, injections) 
prior to the procedure 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9297 Shared decision-making including discussion 
of conservative (non-surgical) therapy 
(e.g., nsaids, analgesics, weight loss, 
exercise, injections) prior to the procedure, 
not documented, reason not given 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9298 Patients who are evaluated for venous 
thromboembolic and cardiovascular risk 
factors within 30 days prior to the procedure 
(e.g. history of DVT, PE, Ml, arrhythmia and 
stroke) 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9299 Patients who are not evaluated for venous 
thromboembolic and cardiovascular risk 
factors within 30 days prior to the procedure 
(e.g., history of dvt, pe, mi, arrhythmia and 
stroke, reason not given) 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9305 Intervention for presence of leak of 
endoluminal contents through an 
anastomosis not required 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9306 Intervention for presence of leak of 
endoluminal contents through an 
anastomosis required 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9307 No return to the operating room for a surgical 
procedure, for complications of the principal 
operative procedure, within 30 days of the 
principal operative procedure 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9293 - G9318 
B G9308 Unplanned return to the operating room for a 
surgical procedure, for complications of the 
principal operative procedure, within 30 days 
of the principal operative procedure 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9309 No unplanned hospital readmission within 
30 days of principal procedure 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9310 Unplanned hospital readmission within 
30 days of principal procedure 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9311 No surgical site infection 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9312 Surgical site infection 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9313 Amoxicillin, with or without clavulanate, not 
prescribed as first line antibiotic at the time of 
diagnosis for documented reason 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9314 Amoxicillin, with or without clavulanate, not 
prescribed as first line antibiotic at the time of 
diagnosis, reason not given 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9315 Amoxicillin, with or without clavulanate, 
prescribed as a first line antibiotic at the time 
of diagnosis 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9316 Documentation of patient-specific risk 
assessment with a risk calculator based on 
multi-institutional clinical data, the specific 
risk calculator used, and communication of 
risk assessment from risk calculator with the 
patient or family 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9317 Documentation of patient-specific risk 
assessment with a risk calculator based on 
multi-institutional clinical data, the specific 
risk calculator used, and communication of 
risk assessment from risk calculator with the 
patient or family not completed 
M l1ilm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9318 Imaging study named according to 
standardized nomenclature 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
-!? Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
l1i!m MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
267 
G9319-G9361 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
268 
B G9319 Imaging study not named according to 
standardized nomenclature, reason 
not given 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9321 Count of previous ct (any type of ct) and 
cardiac nuclear medicine (myocardial 
perfusion) studies documented in the 
12-month period prior to the
current study
M mm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9322 Count of previous CT and cardiac nuclear 
medicine (myocardial perfusion) studies not 
documented in the 12-month period prior to 
the current study, reason not given 
M mm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9341 Search conducted for prior patient CT 
studies completed at non-affiliated external 
healthcare facilities or entities within the 
past 12-months and are available through 
a secure, authorized, media-free, shared 
archive prior to an imaging study being 
performed 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9342 Search not conducted prior to an imaging 
study being performed for prior patient CT 
studies completed at non-affiliated external 
healthcare facilities or entities within the 
past 12-months and are available through 
a secure, authorized, media-free, shared 
archive, reason not given 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9344 Due to system reasons search not conducted 
for dicom format images for prior patient CT 
imaging studies completed at non-affiliated 
external healthcare facilities or entities 
within the past 12 months that are available 
through a secure, authorized, media-free, 
shared archive (e.g., non-affiliated external 
healthcare facilities or entities does not have 
archival abilities through a shared archival 
system) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9345 Follow-up recommendations documented 
according to recommended guidelines for 
incidentally detected pulmonary nodules 
(e.g., follow-up CT imaging studies needed 
or that no follow-up is needed) based at a 
minimum on nodule size and patient risk 
factors 
0 M mm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9347 Follow-up recommendations not documented 
according to recommended guidelines for 
incidentally detected pulmonary nodules, 
reason not given 
e M mm 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9351 More than one CT scan of the paranasal 
sinuses ordered or received within 90 days 
after diagnosis 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9352 More than one CT scan of the paranasal 
sinuses ordered or received within 90 days 
after the date of diagnosis, reason not 
given 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9353 More than one CT scan of the paranasal 
sinuses ordered or received within 90 days 
after the date of diagnosis for documented 
reasons (e.g., patients with complications, 
second CT obtained prior to surgery, other 
medical reasons) 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9354 One CT scan or no CT scan of the paranasal 
sinuses ordered within 90 days after the date 
of diagnosis 
M 
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9355 Elective delivery (without medical 
indication) by cesarean birth or 
induction of labor not performed 
(<39 weeks of gestation) 
 e M cm
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9356 Elective delivery (without medical 
indication) by cesarean birth or 
induction of labor performed 
(<39 weeks of gestation) 
 e M cm
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9357 Post-partum screenings, evaluations and 
education performed 
 e M mm
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9358 Post-partum screenings, evaluations and 
education not performed 
 e M cm
BETOS: M5B 
Specialist - psychiatry 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9361 Medical indication for delivery by cesarean 
birth or induction of labor (<39 weeks of 
gestation) [documentation of reason(s) for 
elective delivery (e.g., hemorrhage and 
placental complications, hypertension, 
preeclampsia and eclampsia, rupture of 
membranes (premature or prolonged), 
• Newcocle
 Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
la Non-covered by Medicare 
 Non-covered by Medicare statute
AHA Coding Clinic' 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
maternal conditions complicating pregnancy/ 
delivery, fetal conditions complicating 
pregnancy/delivery, late pregnancy, prior 
uterine surgery, or participation in 
clinical trial)) 
!?- 0 M mm
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9364 Sinusitis caused by, or presumed to be 
caused by, bacterial infection 
M mm
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9367 At least two orders for high-risk medications 
from the same drug class 
M mm
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9368 At least two orders for high-risk medications 
from the same drug class not ordered M mm
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G9380 Patient offered assistance with end of
life issues or existing end of life plan 
was reviewed or updated during the 
measurement period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G9382 Patient not offered assistance with end
of life issues or existing end of life plan 
was not reviewed or updated during the 
measurement period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9383 Patient received screening for HGV infection 
within the 12 month reporting period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9384 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
receiving annual screening for HGV infection 
(e.g., decompensated cirrhosis indicating 
advanced disease [i.e., ascites, esophageal 
variceal bleeding, hepatic encephalopathy], 
hepatocellular carcinoma, waillist for organ 
transplant, limited life expectancy, other 
medical reasons) 
M mm
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9385 Documentation of patient reason(s) for not 
receiving annual screening for HGV infection 
(e.g., patient declined, other patient 
reasons) 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9386 Screening for HGV infection not received 
within the 12 month reporting period, 
reason not given 
M mm
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9364 - G9407 
B G9393 Patient with an initial PHQ-9 score greater 
than nine who achieves remission at twelve 
months as demonstrated by a twelve month 
(+/- 30 days) PHQ-9 score of less than 
five 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9394 Patient who had a diagnosis of bipolar 
disorder or personality disorder, death, 
permanent nursing home resident or 
receiving hospice or palliative care any time 
during the measurement or assessment 
period 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9395 Patient with an initial PHQ-9 score greater 
than nine who did not achieve remission at 
twelve months as demonstrated by a twelve 
month (+/- 30 days) PHQ-9 score greater 
than or equal to five 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9396 Patient with an initial PHQ-9 score greater 
than nine who was not assessed for 
remission at twelve months (+/- 30 days) 
M
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9402 Patient received follow-up within 30 days 
after discharge 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9403 Clinician documented reason patient was not 
able to complete 30 day follow-up from acute 
inpatient setting discharge (e.g., patient 
death prior to follow-up visit, patient non-
compliant for visit follow-up) 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9404 Patient did not receive follow-up within 
30 days after discharge 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9405 Patient received follow-up within 7 days 
after discharge 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9406 Clinician documented reason patient was 
not able to complete 7 day follow-up from 
acute inpatient setting discharge (i.e patient 
death prior to follow-up visit, patient non-
compliance for visit follow-up) 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9407 Patient did not receive follow-up within 
7 days after discharge 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
fl) Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
EilII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
llJm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
269 
G9408 - G9425 
Procedures I Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
270 
B G9408 Patients with cardiac tamponade and/or 
pericardiocentesis occurring within 
30 days 
Mllilm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9409 Patients without cardiac tamponade and/or 
pericardiocentesis occurring within 
30 days 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G941 0 Patient admitted within 180 days, status post 
CIED implantation, replacement, or revision 
with an infection requiring device removal or 
surgical revision 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9411 Patient not admitted within 180 days, status 
post cied implantation, replacement, or 
revision with an infection requiring device 
removal or surgical revision 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9412 Patient admitted within 180 days, status post 
cied implantation, replacement, or revision 
with an infection requiring device removal 
or surgical revision 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9413 Patient not admitted within 180 days, status 
post cied implantation, replacement, or 
revision with an infection requiring device 
removal or surgical revision 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9414 Patient had one dose of meningococcal 
vaccine (serogroups a, c, w, y) on or 
between the patient's 11th and 13th 
birthdays 
O M 11iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9415 Patient did not have one dose of 
meningococcal vaccine (serogroups a, c, 
w, y) on or between the patient's 11th 
and 13th birthdays 
O M 11iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9416 Patient had one tetanus, diphtheria toxoids 
and acellular pertussis vaccine (TDAP) 
on or between the patient's 10th and 
13th birthdays 
O M 11iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9417 Patient did not have one tetanus, diphtheria 
toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine 
(TDAP) on or between the patient's 
10th and 13th birthdays 
O M 11iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9418 Primary non-small cell lung cancer lung 
biopsy and cytology specimen report 
documents classification into specific 
histologic type following iaslc guidance or 
classified as nsclc-nos with an 
explanation 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9419 Documentation of medical reason(s) 
for not including the histological type or 
nsclc-nos classification with an explanation 
(e.g. specimen insufficient or non-diagnostic, 
specimen does not contain cancer, or other 
documented medical reasons) 
M l1Jlil 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9420 Specimen site other than anatomic location 
of lung or is not classified as primary 
non-small cell lung cancer 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9421 Primary non-small cell lung cancer lung 
biopsy and cytology specimen report does 
not document classification into specific 
histologic type or histologic type does not 
follow iaslc guidance or is classified as 
nsclc-nos but without an explanation 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9422 Primary lung carcinoma resection report 
documents pt category, pn category and 
for non-small cell lung cancer, histologic 
type (e.g., squamous cell carcinoma, 
adenocarcinoma and not nsclc-nos) 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9423 Documentation of medical reason for not 
including pt category, pn category and 
histologic type [for patient with appropriate 
exclusion criteria (e.g., metastatic disease, 
benign tumors, malignant tumors other than 
carcinomas, inadequate surgical 
specimens)] 
Mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9424 Specimen site other than anatomic location 
of lung, or classified as NSCLC-NOS 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9425 Primary lung carcinoma resection report 
does not document pt category, pn category 
and for non-small cell lung cancer, histologic 
type (e.g., squamous cell carcinoma, 
adenocarcinoma) 
M 1/lW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code 
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic9 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
131 G9426 Improvement in median time from ED 
arrival to initial ED oral or parenteral pain 
medication administration performed for 
ED admitted patients 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9427 Improvement in median time from ED 
arrival to initial ED oral or parenteral pain 
medication administration not performed for 
ED admitted patients 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9428 Pathology report includes the pt category, 
thickness, ulceration and mitotic rate, 
peripheral and deep margin status and 
presence or absence of microsatellitosis for 
invasive tumors 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9429 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
including pt category, thickness, ulceration 
and mitotic rate, peripheral and deep 
margin status and presence or absence of 
microsatellitosis for invasive tumors (e.g., 
negative skin biopsies, insufficient tissue, or 
other documented medical reasons) 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9430 Specimen site other than anatomic 
cutaneous location 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9431 Pathology report does not include the pt 
category, thickness, ulceration and mitotic 
rate, peripheral and deep margin status and 
presence or absence of microsatellitosis 
for invasive tumors 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9432 Asthma well-controlled based on the ACT, 
C-ACT, ACQ, or ATAQ score and results
documented
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9434 Asthma not well-controlled based on the 
ACT, C-ACT, ACQ, or ATAQ score, or 
specified asthma control tool not used, 
reason not given 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G9452 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not
receiving hcv antibody test due to 
limited life expectancy 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9426 - G9470 
B G9455 Patient underwent abdominal imaging 
with ultrasound, contrast enhanced CT or 
contrast MRI for HCC 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9456 Documentation of medical or patient 
reason(s) for not ordering or performing 
screening for HCC. medical reason: 
comorbid medical conditions with expected 
survival < 5 years, hepatic decompensation 
and not a candidate for liver transplantation, 
or other medical reasons; patient reasons: 
patient declined or other patient reasons 
(e.g., cost of tests, time related to 
accessing testing equipment) 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9457 Patient did not undergo abdominal imaging 
and did not have a documented reason for 
not undergoing abdominal imaging in the 
submission period 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9458 Patient documented as tobacco user and 
received tobacco cessation intervention 
(must include at least one of the following: 
advice given to quit smoking or tobacco 
use, counseling on the benefits of quitting 
smoking or tobacco use, assistance 
with or referral to external smoking or 
tobacco cessation support programs, or 
current enrollment in smoking or tobacco 
use cessation program) if identified as a 
tobacco user 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9459 Currently a tobacco non-user 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9460 Tobacco assessment or tobacco 
cessation intervention not performed, 
reason not given 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M tllm 
B G9468 Patient not receiving corticosteroids greater 
than or equal to 10 mg/day of prednisone 
equivalents for 60 or greater consecutive 
days or a single prescription equating to 
600 mg prednisone or greater for all fills 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9470 Patients not receiving corticosteroids greater 
than or equal to 10 mg/day of prednisone 
equivalents for 60 or greater consecutive 
days or a single prescription equating to 
600mg prednisone or greater for all fills 
M
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
5 Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
tlm MIPS code 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
mII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
271 
G94 71 - G9484 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
272 
B G9471 Within the past 2 years, central dual-energy 
X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) not ordered or 
documented
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B
B G9473 Services performed by chaplain in the 
hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9474 Services performed by dietary counselor in 
the hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9475 Services performed by other counselor in 
the hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9476 Services performed by volunteer in the 
hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9477 Services performed by care coordinator in 
the hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9478 Services performed by other qualified 
therapist in the hospice setting, each 
15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9479 Services performed by qualified pharmacist 
in the hospice setting, each 15 minutes 
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9480 Admission to Medicare care choice model 
program (MCCM) 
B 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9481 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only 
in a Medicare-approved CMS innovation 
center demonstration project, which requires 
these 3 key components: a problem focused 
history; a problem focused examination; and 
straightforward medical decision making, 
furnished in real time using interactive 
audio and video technology. counseling and 
coordination of care with other physicians, 
other qualified health care professionals or 
agencies are provided consistent with the 
nature of the problem(s) and the needs of 
the patient or the family or both. usually, 
the presenting problem(s) are self limited 
or minor. typically, 10 minutes are spent 
with the patient or family or both via real 
time, audio and video intercommunications 
technology 
B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B G9482 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only in 
a Medicare-approved CMS innovation center 
demonstration project, which requires these 
3 key components: an expanded problem 
focused history; an expanded problem 
focused examination; straightforward 
medical decision making, furnished in real 
time using interactive audio and video 
technology. counseling and coordination of 
care with other physicians, other qualified 
health care. professionals or agencies are 
provided consistent with the nature of the 
problem( s) and the needs of the patient or 
the family or both. usually, the presenting 
problem(s) are of low to moderate severity. 
typically, 20 minutes are spent with the 
patient or family or both via real time, audio 
and video intercommunications technology B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B G9483 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only 
in a Medicare-approved CMS innovation 
center demonstration project, which requires 
these 3 key components: a detailed history; 
a detailed examination; medical decision 
making of low complexity, furnished in 
real time using interactive audio and video 
technology. counseling and coordination of 
care with other physicians, other qualified 
health care professionals or agencies are 
provided consistent with the nature of the 
problem(s) and the needs of the patient or 
the family or both. usually, the presenting 
problem(s) are of moderate severity. 
typically, 30 minutes are spent with the 
patient or family or both via real time, audio 
and video intercommunications technology B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B G9484 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only in 
a Medicare-approved CMS innovation center 
demonstration project, which requires these 
3 key components: a comprehensive history; 
a comprehensive examination; medical 
decision making of moderate complexity, 
furnished in real time using interactive 
audio and video technology. counseling and 
coordination of care with other physicians, 
other qualified health care professionals or 
agencies are provided consistent with the 
nature of the problem(s) and the needs of 
the patient or the family or both. usually, the 
presenting problem(s) are of moderate to 
• Newcode 
.... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
high severity. typically, 45 minutes are spent 
with the patient or family or both via real 
time, audio and video intercommunications 
technology 
B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B G9485 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only 
in a Medicare-approved CMS innovation 
center demonstration project, which requires 
these 3 key components: a comprehensive 
history; a comprehensive examination; 
medical decision making of high complexity, 
furnished in real time using interactive 
audio and video technology. counseling and 
coordination of care with other physicians, 
other qualified health care professionals or 
agencies are provided consistent with the 
nature of the problem(s) and the needs of 
the patient or the family or both. usually, the 
presenting problem(s) are of moderate to 
high severity. typically, 60 minutes are spent 
with the patient or family or both via real 
time, audio and video intercommunications 
technology 
8 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B G9486 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation 
and management of an established patient 
for use only in a Medicare-approved CMS 
innovation center demonstration project, 
which requires at least 2 of the following 
3 key components: a problem focused 
history; a problem focused examination; 
straightforward medical decision making, 
furnished in real time using interactive 
audio and video technology. counseling and 
coordination of care with other physicians, 
other qualified health care professionals or 
agencies are provided consistent with the 
nature of the problem(s) and the needs of 
the patient or the family or both. usually, 
the presenting problem(s) are self limited 
or minor. typically, 10 minutes are spent 
with the patient or family or both via real 
time, audio and video intercommunications 
technology 
B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B G9487 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation 
and management of an established patient 
for use only in a Medicare-approved CMS 
innovation center demonstration project, 
which requires at least 2 of the following 
3 key components: an expanded problem 
focused history; an expanded problem 
focused examination; medical decision 
making of low complexity, furnished in 
G9485 - G9489 
real time using interactive audio and video 
technology. counseling and coordination of 
care with other physicians, other qualified 
health care professionals or agencies are 
provided consistent with the nature of the 
problem(s) and the needs of the patient or 
the family or both. usually, the presenting 
problem(s) are of low to moderate severity. 
typically, 15 minutes are spent with the 
patient or family or both via real time, audio 
and video intercommunications technology B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B G9488 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation 
and management of an established patient 
for use only in a Medicare-approved CMS 
innovation center demonstration project, 
which requires at least 2 of the following 
3 key components: a detailed history; a 
detailed examination; medical decision 
making of moderate complexity, furnished in 
real time using interactive audio and video 
technology. counseling and coordination of 
care with other physicians, other qualified 
health care professionals or agencies are 
provided consistent with the nature of the 
problem(s) and the needs of the patient or 
the family or both. usually, the presenting 
problem(s) are of moderate to high severity. 
typically, 25 minutes are spent with the 
patient or family or both via real time, audio 
and video intercommunications technology B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B G9489 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation 
and management of an established patient 
for use only in a Medicare-approved CMS 
innovation center demonstration project, 
which requires at least 2 of the following 
3 key components: a comprehensive 
history; a comprehensive examination; 
medical decision making of high complexity, 
furnished in real time using interactive 
audio and video technology. counseling and 
coordination of care with other physicians, 
other qualified health care professionals or 
agencies are provided consistent with the 
nature of the problem(s) and the needs of 
the patient or the family or both. usually, the 
presenting problem(s) are of moderate to 
high severity. typically, 40 minutes are spent 
with the patient or family or both via real 
time, audio and video intercommunications 
technology 
B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
Clm MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
273 
G9490 - G9513 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
274 
B G9490 CMS innovation center models, home 
visit for patient assessment performed by 
clinical staff for an individual not considered 
homebound, including, but not necessarily 
limited to patient assessment of clinical 
status, safety/fall prevention, functional 
status/ambulation, medication reconciliation/ 
management, compliance with orders/plan 
of care, performance of activities of daily 
living, and ensuring beneficiary connections 
to community and other services. (for use 
only in Medicare-approved CMS innovation 
center models); may not be billed for a 
30 day period covered by a transitional care 
management code 
B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B G9497 Received instruction from the 
anesthesiologist or proxy prior to the day of 
surgery to abstain from smoking on the 
day of surgery 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9498 Antibiotic regimen prescribed 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M mm 
B G9500 Radiation exposure indices documented in 
final report for procedure using 
fluoroscopy 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9501 Radiation exposure indices not documented 
in final report for procedure using 
fluoroscopy, reason not given 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9502 Documentation of medical reason for not 
performing foot exam (i.e., patients who 
have had either a bilateral amputation above 
or below the knee, or both a left and right 
amputation above or below the knee before 
or during the measurement period) 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9504 Documented reason for not assessing 
hepatitis B virus (HBV) status (e.g., patient 
not initiating anti-TNF therapy, patient 
declined) prior to initiating anti-TNF 
therapy 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9505 Antibiotic regimen prescribed within 10 days 
after onset of symptoms for documented 
medical reason 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9507 Documentation that the patient is on a 
statin medication or has documentation of a 
valid contraindication or exception to statin 
medications; contraindications/exceptions 
that can be defined by diagnosis codes 
include pregnancy during the measurement 
period, active liver disease, rhabdomyolysis, 
end stage renal disease on dialysis 
and heart failure; provider documented 
contraindications/exceptions include 
breastfeeding during the measurement 
period, woman of child-bearing age not 
actively taking birth control, allergy to statin, 
drug interaction (HIV protease inhibitors, 
nefazodone, cyclosporine, gemfibrozil, and 
danazol) and intolerance (with supporting 
documentation of trying a statin at least once 
within the last 5 years or diagnosis codes for 
myositis or toxic myopathy related 
dru) 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9508 Documentation that the patient is not on a 
statin medication 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9509 Adult patients 18 years of age or older with 
major depression or dysthymia who reached 
remission at twelve months as demonstrated 
by a twelve month (+/-60 days) phq-9 or 
phq-9m score of less than 5 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G951 0 Adult patients 18 years of age or older 
with major depression or dysthymia 
who did not reach remission at twelve 
months as demonstrated by a twelve 
month (+/-60 days) phq-9 or phq-9m score 
of less than 5. either phq- 9 or phq-9m score 
was not assessed or is greater than or 
equal to 5 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9511 Index event date phq-9 or phq-9m score 
greater than 9 documented during the 
twelve month denominator identification 
period 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9512 Individual had a PDC of 0.8 or greater M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9513 Individual did not have a PDC of 0.8 or 
greater 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
ii Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G9514 Patient required a return to the operating 
room within 90 days of surgery 
M r:Jm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9515 Patient did not require a return to the 
operating room within 90 days of 
surgery 
M r:Jm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9516 Patient achieved an improvement in visual 
acuity, from their preoperative level, 
within 90 days of surgery 
M r:Jm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9517 Patient did not achieve an improvement in 
visual acuity, from their preoperative level, 
within 90 days of surgery, reason not 
given 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9518 Documentation of active injection 
drug use 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M liJm 
B G9519 Patient achieves final refraction (spherical 
equivalent) +/- 1.0 diopters of their planned 
refraction within 90 days of surgery 
M r:Jm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9520 Patient does not achieve final refraction 
(spherical equivalent) +/- 1.0 diopters of their 
planned refraction within 90 days of 
surgery 
M Im) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9521 Total number of emergency department visits 
and inpatient hospitalizations less than two 
in the past 12 months 
M r:Jm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9522 Total number of emergency department 
visits and inpatient hospitalizations equal to 
or greater than two in the past 12 months or 
patient not screened, reason not given M r:Jm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9529 Patient with minor blunt head trauma had an 
appropriate indication(s) for a head CT M r:Jm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9530 Patient presented with a minor blunt head 
trauma and had a head ct ordered for trauma 
by an emergency care provider 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9514 - G9544 
B G9531 Patient has documentation of ventricular 
shunt, brain tumor, multisystem trauma, or 
is currently taking an antiplatelet medication 
including: abciximab, anagrelide, cangrelor, 
cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, 
eptifibatide, prasugrel, ticlopidine, 
ticagrelor, tirofiban, or vorapaxar 
Mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9533 Patient with minor blunt head trauma did 
not have an appropriate indication(s) 
for a head CT 
M r:Jm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9537 Imaging needed as part of a clinical trial; 
or other clinician ordered the study 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9539 Intent for potential removal at time of 
placement 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9540 Patient alive 3 months post procedure M lillW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9541 Filter removed within 3 months of 
placement 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9542 Documented re-assessment for the 
appropriateness of filter removal within 
3 months of placement 
M lillW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9543 Documentation of at least two attempts to 
reach the patient to arrange a clinical re­
assessment for the appropriateness of filter 
removal within 3 months of placement M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9544 Patients that do not have the filter 
removed, documented re-assessment for 
the appropriateness of filter removal, or 
documentation of at least two attempts to 
reach the patient to arrange a clinical re­
assessment for the appropriateness of filter 
removal within 3 months of placement M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
lil!W MIPS code
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
275 
G9547 - G9605 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
276 
B G9547 Cystic renal lesion that is simple appearing 
(bosniak i or ii) , or adrenal lesion less than 
or equal to 1.0 cm or adrenal lesion greater 
than 1.0 cm but less than or equal to 4.0 cm 
classified as likely benign by unenhanced 
ct or washout protocol ct, or mri with in-
and opposed-phase sequences or other 
equivalent institutional imaging 
protocols 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9548 Final reports for imaging studies stating no 
follow-up imaging is recommended 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9549 Documentation of medical reason(s) that 
follow-up imaging is indicated (e.g., patient 
has lymphadenopathy, signs of metastasis 
or an active diagnosis or history of cancer, 
and other medical reason(s)) 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9550 Final reports for imaging studies with 
follow-up imaging recommended, or final 
reports that do not include a specific 
recommendation of no follow-up 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9551 Final reports for imaging studies without an 
incidentally found lesion noted 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9552 Incidental thyroid nodule< 1.0 cm noted in 
report 
M llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9553 Prior thyroid disease diagnosis 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9554 Final reports for CT, CTA, MRI or MRA of 
the chest or neck with follow-up imaging 
M 
recommended 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9555 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
recommending follow up imaging (e.g., patient 
has multiple endocrine neoplasia, patient 
has cervical lymphadenopathy, 
other medical reason(s)) 
M tlm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9556 Final reports for ct, eta, mri or mra of the 
chest or neck with follow-up imaging not 
recommended 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9557 Final reports for ct, eta, mri or mra studies 
of the chest or neck without an incidentally 
found thyroid nodule < 1.0 cm noted or no 
nodule found 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9580 Door to puncture time of 90 minutes or 
less 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9582 Door to puncture time of greater than 
90 minutes, no reason given 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9593 Pediatric patient with minor blunt head 
trauma classified as low risk according 
to the pecarn prediction rules 
e M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9594 Patient presented with a minor blunt head 
trauma and had a head ct ordered for 
trauma by an emergency 
care provider 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9595 Patient has documentation of ventricular 
shunt, brain tumor, or coagulopathy 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9597 Pediatric patient with minor blunt head 
trauma not classified as low risk according 
to the pecarn prediction rules 
e M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9598 Aortic aneurysm 5.5 - 5.9 cm maximum 
diameter on centerline formatted CT or 
minor diameter on axial formatted CT 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9599 Aortic aneurysm 6.0 cm or greater maximum 
diameter on centerline formatted CT or minor 
diameter on axial formatted CT 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9603 Patient survey score improved from baseline 
following treatment 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9604 Patient survey results not available 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9605 Patient survey score did not improve from 
baseline following treatment 
M IIJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
_... Revised code 
ml Carrier judgment 
l]J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
Ea Non-covered by Medicare 
El) Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic* 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G9606 lntraoperative cystoscopy performed to 
evaluate for lower tract injury 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9607 Documented medical reasons for not 
performing intraoperative cystoscopy 
(e.g., urethral pathology precluding 
cystoscopy, any patient who has a congenital 
or acquired absence of the urethra) or 
in the case of patient death 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9608 lntraoperative cystoscopy not performed to 
evaluate for lower tract injury 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9609 Documentation of an order for anti-platelet 
agen[ 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9610 Documentation of medical reason(s) in the 
patient's record for not ordering anti-platelet 
agen[ 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9611 Order for anti-platelet agents was not 
documented in the patient's record, reason 
not given 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9621 Patient identified as an unhealthy alcohol 
user when screened for unhealthy alcohol 
use using a systematic screening method 
and received brief counseling 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9622 Patient not identified as an unhealthy alcohol 
user when screened for unhealthy alcohol 
use using a systematic screening 
method 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9624 Patient not screened for unhealthy alcohol 
use using a systematic screening method 
or patient did not receive brief counseling if 
identified as an unhealthy alcohol user M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9625 Patient sustained bladder injury at the time 
of surgery or discovered subsequently 
up to 30 days post-surgery 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9626 Documented medical reason for not 
reporting bladder injury (e.g., gynecologic 
or other pelvic malignancy documented, 
concurrent surgery involving bladder 
G9606 - G9643 
pathology, injury that occurs during a urinary 
incontinence procedure, patient death from 
non-medical causes not related to surgery, 
patient died during procedure without 
evidence of bladder injury) 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9627 Patient did not sustain bladder injury at the 
time of surgery nor discovered subsequently 
up to 30 days post-surgery 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9628 Patient sustained bowel injury at the time 
of surgery or discovered subsequently 
up to 30 days post-surgery 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9629 Documented medical reasons for not 
reporting bowel injury (e.g., gynecologic 
or other pelvic malignancy documented, 
planned (e.g., not due to an unexpected 
bowel injury) resection and/or re­
anastomosis of bowel, or patient death from 
non-medical causes not related to surgery, 
patient died during procedure without 
evidence of bowel injury) 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9630 Patient did not sustain a bowel injury at the 
time of surgery nor discovered subsequently 
up to 30 days post-surgery 
M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9637 Final reports with documentation of 
one or more dose reduction techniques 
(e.g., automated exposure control, 
adjustment of the ma and/or kv according to 
patient size, use of iterative reconstruction 
technique) 
o M LlIW
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9638 Final reports without documentation of 
one or more dose reduction techniques 
(e.g., automated exposure control, 
adjustment of the ma and/or kv according to 
patient size, use of iterative reconstruction 
technique) 
OM LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9642 Current smoker (e.g., cigarette, cigar, pipe, 
e-cigarette or marijuana) 
O M LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9643 Elective surgery 
OM LlIW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
+ Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ID Paid under the OME fee schedule 
LlIW MIPS code 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
277 
G9644 - G96 7 4 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
278 
B G9644 Patients who abstained from smoking prior 
to anesthesia on the day of surgery or 
procedure 
M l1ilW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9645 Patients who did not abstain from smoking 
prior to anesthesia on the day of surgery or 
procedure 
M l1ilW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9646 Patients with 90 day MRS score of 0 
to 2 
M l1ilW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9648 Patients with 90 day MRS score 
greater than 2 
M l1ilW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9649 Psoriasis assessment tool documented 
meeting any one of the specified 
benchmarks (e.g., (pga; 5-point or 6-point 
scale), body surface area (bsa), psoriasis 
area and severity index (pasi) and/or 
dermatology life quality index) (dlqi)) 
M l1ilW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9651 Psoriasis assessment tool documented 
not meeting any one of the specified 
benchmarks (e.g., (pga; 5-point or 6-point 
scale), body surface area (bsa), psoriasis 
area and severity index (pasi) and/or 
dermatology life quality index) (dlqi)) or 
psoriasis assessment tool not 
documented 
M lmJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9654 Monitored anesthesia care (MAC) 
M lmJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9655 A transfer of care protocol or handoff tool/ 
checklist that includes the required key 
handoff elements is used 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9656 Patient transferred directly from 
anesthetizing location to PACU or other 
non-ICU location 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9658 A transfer of care protocol or handoff tool/ 
checklist that includes the required key 
handoff elements is not used 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9659 Patients greater than or equal to 86 years of 
age who underwent a screening colonoscopy 
and did not have a history of colorectal 
cancer or other valid medical reason for 
the colonoscopy, including: iron deficiency 
anemia, lower gastrointestinal bleeding, 
crohn's disease (i.e., regional enteritis), 
familial adenomatous polyposis, lynch 
syndrome (i.e., hereditary non-polyposis 
colorectal cancer), inflammatory bowel 
disease, ulcerative colitis, abnormal finding 
of gastrointestinal tract, or changes in 
bowel habits 
e M l1ilW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9660 Documentation of medical reason(s) for a 
colonoscopy performed on a patient greater 
than or equal to 86 years of age (e.g., iron 
deficiency anemia, lower gastrointestinal 
bleeding, crohn's disease (i.e., regional 
enteritis), familial history of adenomatous 
polyposis, lynch syndrome (i.e., hereditary 
non-polyposis colorectal cancer), 
inflammatory bowel disease, ulcerative 
colitis, abnormal finding of gastrointestinal 
tract, or changes in bowel habits) 
e M 1ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9661 Patients greater than or equal to 86 years 
of age who received a colonoscopy for an 
assessment of signs/symptoms of gi tract 
illness, and/or because the patient meets 
high risk criteria, and/or to follow-up on 
previously diagnosed advanced 
lesions 
e M 1ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9662 Previously diagnosed or have a diagnosis of 
clinical ascvd, including ascvd 
procedure 
e M 1ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9663 Any ldl-c laboratory result 
>= 190 mg/di 
e M 1ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9664 Patients who are currently statin therapy 
users or received an order (prescription) for 
statin therapy 
M 1ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9665 Patients who are not currently statin 
therapy users or did not receive an order 
(prescription) for statin therapy 
M 1ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9674 Patients with clinical ASCVD diagnosis 
M 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
.a. Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
l]J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare e Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G9675 Patients who have ever had a fasting or 
direct laboratory result of 
LDL-C = 190 mg/di 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9676 Patients aged 40 to 75 years at the 
beginning of the measurement period 
with type 1 or type 2 diabetes and with an 
LDL-C result of 70-189 mg/di recorded as 
the highest fasting or direct laboratory test 
result in the measurement year or during 
the two years prior to the beginning of the 
measurement period 
o M
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9679 This code is for onsite acute care treatment 
of a nursing facility resident with pneumonia; 
may only be billed once per day per 
beneficiary 
B 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9680 This code is for onsite acute care treatment 
of a nursing facility resident with CHF; may 
only be billed once per day per beneficiary B 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9681 This code is for onsite acute care treatment 
of a resident with COPD or asthma; may only 
be billed once per day per beneficiary 
B 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9682 This code is for the onsite acute care 
treatment a nursing facility resident with a 
skin infection; may only be billed once per 
day per beneficiary 
B 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9683 Facility service(s) for the onsite acute care 
treatment of a nursing facility resident with 
fluid or electrolyte disorder. (may only be 
billed once per day per beneficiary). this 
service is for a demonstration project 
B 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9684 This code is for the onsite acute care 
treatment of a nursing facility resident for 
a UTI; may only be billed once per day per 
beneficiary 
B 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9685 Physician service or other qualified health 
care professional for the evaluation and 
management of a beneficiary's acute change 
in condition in a nursing facility. this service 
is for a demonstration project 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9675 - G9699 
131 G9687 Hospice services provided to patient any 
time during the measurement period 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9688 Patients using hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9689 Patient admitted for performance of elective 
carotid intervention 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9690 Patient receiving hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9691 Patient had hospice services any time during 
the measurement period 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9692 Hospice services received by patient any 
time during the measurement period 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9693 Patient use of hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9694 Hospice services UTIiized by patient any 
time during the measurement period 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9695 Long-acting inhaled bronchodilator 
prescribed 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G9696 Documentation of medical reason(s) for
not prescribing a long-acting inhaled 
bronchodilator (e.g., patient intolerance or 
history of side effects) 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G9698 Documentation of system reason(s) for
not prescribing a long-acting inhaled 
bronchodilator (e.g., cost of treatment 
or lack of insurance) 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9699 Long-acting inhaled bronchodilator not 
prescribed, reason not otherwise 
specified 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
S?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
llLllJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
cm MIPS code
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
279 
G9700- G9721 
B G9700 Patients who use hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9702 Patients who use hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.& B G9703 Episodes where the patient is taking 
antibiotics (table 1) in the 30 days prior 
to the episode date 
O M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9704 AJCC breast cancer stage i: 11 mic or 11 a 
documented 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9705 AJCC breast cancer stage i: t1 b (tumor > 
0.5 cm but<= 1 cm in greatest dimension) 
documented 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9706 Low (or very low) risk of recurrence, 
prostate cancer 
d" M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9707 Patient received hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9708 Women who had a bilateral mastectomy or 
who have a history of a bilateral mastectomy 
or for whom there is evidence of a right and 
a left unilateral mastectomy 
 M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9709 Hospice services used by patient any time 
during the measurement period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9710 Patient was provided hospice services any 
time during the measurement period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9711 Patients with a diagnosis or past history of 
total colectomy or colorectal cancer 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9712 Documentation of medical reason(s) 
for prescribing or dispensing antibiotic 
(e.g., intestinal infection, pertussis, bacterial 
infection, lyme disease, otitis media, 
acute sinusitis, acute pharyngitis, acute 
tonsillitis, chronic sinusitis, infection of the 
pharynx/larynx/tonsils/adenoids, prostatitis, 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
cellulitis/ mastoiditis/bone infections, 
acute lymphadenitis, impetigo, skin 
staph infections, pneumonia, gonococcal 
infections/venereal disease (syphilis, 
chlamydia, inflammatory diseases [female 
reproductive organs]), infections of the 
kidney, cystitis/UT!, acne, HIV disease/ 
asymptomatic HIV, cystic fibrosis, disorders 
of the immune system, malignancy 
neoplasms, chronic bronchitis, emphysema, 
bronchiectasis, extrinsic allergic alveolitis, 
chronic airway obstruction, chronic 
obstructive asthma, pneumoconiosis and 
other lung disease due to external agents, 
other diseases of the respiratory system, 
and tuberculosis 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9713 Patients who use hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9714 Patient is using hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M l1Jil3 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9716 Bmi is documented as being outside of 
normal parameters, follow-up plan is not 
completed for documented medical 
reason 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.& B G9717 Documentation stating the patient has had a 
diagnosis of bipolar disorder 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9719 Patient is not ambulatory, bed ridden, 
immobile, confined to chair, wheelchair 
bound, dependent on helper pushing 
wheelchair, independent in wheelchair or 
minimal help in wheelchair 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9720 Hospice services for patient occurred any 
time during the measurement period 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9721 Patient not ambulatory, bed ridden, immobile, 
confined to chair, wheelchair bound, 
dependent on helper pushing wheelchair, 
independent in wheelchair or minimal help in 
wheelchair 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
.& Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
Ril Non-covered by Medicare 
O Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
280 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (GOOO8-G9999) 
B G9722 Documented history of renal failure or 
baseline serum creatinine >= 4.0 mg/di; renal 
transplant recipients are not considered to 
have preoperative renal failure, unless, since 
transplantation the er has been or is 4.0 or 
higher 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9723 Hospice services for patient received any 
time during the measurement period 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9724 Patients who had documentation of use of 
anticoagulant medications overlapping the 
measurement year 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9726 Patient refused to participate 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9727 Patient unable to complete the lepf prom 
at initial evaluation and/or discharge due to 
blindness, illiteracy, severe mental incapacity 
or language incompatibility and an adequate 
proxy is not available 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9728 Patient refused to participate 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9729 Patient unable to complete the lepf prom 
at initial evaluation and/or discharge due to 
blindness, illiteracy, severe mental incapacity 
or language incompatibility and an 
adequate proxy is not available 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9730 Patient refused to participate 
M IIJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9731 Patient unable to complete the lepf prom 
at initial evaluation and/or discharge due to 
blindness, illiteracy, severe mental incapacity 
or language incompatibility and an 
adequate proxy is not available 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9732 Patient refused to participate 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9733 Patient unable to complete the low back fs 
prom at initial evaluation and/or discharge 
due to blindness, illiteracy, severe mental 
incapacity or language incompatibility 
and an adequate proxy is not available M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9722 - G9752 
B G9734 Patient refused to participate 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9735 Patient unable to complete the shoulder fs 
prom at initial evaluation and/or discharge 
due to blindness, illiteracy, severe mental 
incapacity or language incompatibility and 
an adequate proxy is not available 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9736 Patient refused to participate 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M l1JW 
B G9737 Patient unable to complete the elbow/wrisU 
hand fs prom at initial evaluation and/or 
discharge due to blindness, illiteracy, severe 
mental incapacity or language incompatibility 
and an adequate proxy is not available M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9740 Hospice services given to patient any time 
during the measurement period 
M IIJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9741 Patients who use hospice services any 
time during the measurement period 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B
B G9744 Patient not eligible due to active diagnosis 
of hypertension 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9745 Documented reason for not screening or 
recommending a follow-up for high 
blood pressure 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9746 Patient has mitral stenosis or prosthetic 
heart valves or patient has transient or 
reversible cause of AF (e.g., pneumonia, 
hyperthyroidism, pregnancy, 
cardiac surgery) 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9751 Patient died at any time during the 
24-month measurement period
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B
M l1JW 
B G9752 Emergency surgery 
M l1JW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
(J Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
liiillJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
11JW MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
281 
G9753 - G9772 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
282 
til G9753 Documentation of medical reason for not 
conducting a search for dicom format 
images for prior patient CT imaging 
studies completed at non-affiliated external 
healthcare facilities or entities within the 
past 12 months that are available through 
a secure, authorized, media-free, shared 
archive (e.g., trauma, acute myocardial 
infarction, stroke, aortic aneurysm where 
time is of the essence) 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9754 A finding of an incidental pulmonary 
nodule 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Mllilm 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9755 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not including a recommended interval and 
modality for follow-up or for no follow-up, and 
source of recommendations (e.g., patients 
with unexplained fever, immunocompromised 
patients who are at risk for infection) 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9756 Surgical procedures that included the 
use of silicone oil 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9757 Surgical procedures that included the 
use of silicone oil 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9758 Patient in hospice at any time during the 
measurement period 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9760 Patients who use hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9761 Patients who use hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9762 Patient had at least two HPV vaccines (with 
at least 146 days between the two) or three 
HPV vaccines on or between the patient's 
9th and 13th birthdays 
'f O M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9763 Patient did not have at least two HPV 
vaccines (with at least 146 days between the 
two) or three HPV vaccines on or between 
the patient's 9th and 13th 
birthdays 
'f O M 11iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9764 Patient has been treated with a systemic 
medication for psoriasis vulgaris 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9765 Documentation that the patient declined 
change in medication or alternative 
therapies were unavailable, has documented 
contraindications, or has not been treated 
with a systemic medication for at least six 
consecutive months (e.g., experienced 
adverse effects or lack of efficacy with all 
other therapy options) in order to achieve 
better disease control as measured by 
pga, bsa, pasi, or dlqi 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9766 Patients who are transferred from one 
institution to another with a known 
diagnosis of CVA for endovascular 
stroke treatment 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9767 Hospitalized patients with newly diagnosed 
CVA considered for endovascular 
stroke treatment 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
til G9768 Patients who utilize hospice services any 
time during the measurement period 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9769 Patient had a bone mineral density test in 
the past two years or received osteoporosis 
medication or therapy in the past 
12 months 
M llilm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9770 Peripheral nerve block (PNB) 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G9771 At least 1 body temperature measurement 
equal to or greater than 35.5 degrees celsius 
(or 95.9 degrees fahrenheit) achieved 
within the 30 minutes immediately before 
or 15 minutes immediately after anesthesia 
end time 
Mllilm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G9772 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not achieving at least 1 body temperature 
measurement equal to or greater than 35.5 
degrees celsius (or 95.9 degrees fahrenheit) 
within the 30 minutes immediately before 
or 15 minutes immediately after anesthesia 
end time (e.g., emergency cases, 
intentional hypothermia, etc.) 
M l1iim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
• Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
l:J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!il Non-covered by Medicare 
 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
..._ B G9773 At least 1 body temperature measurement 
equal to or greater than 35.5 degrees celsius 
(or 95.9 degrees fahrenheit) not achieved 
within the 30 minutes immediately before 
or 15 minutes immediately after anesthesia 
end time, reason not given 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!I G9775 Patient received at least 2 prophylactic 
pharmacologic anti-emetic agents of 
different classes preoperatively and/or 
intraoperatively 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9776 Documentation of medical reason for 
not receiving at least 2 prophylactic 
pharmacologic anti-emetic agents of 
different classes preoperatively and/or 
intraoperatively (e.g., intolerance or 
other medical reason) 
M 1ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9777 Patient did not receive at least 2 prophylactic 
pharmacologic anti-emetic agents of 
different classes preoperatively and/or 
intraoperatively 
M 1ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B G9779 Patients who are breastfeeding at any time 
during the performance period 
ft- e M 1ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
..._ B G9780 Patients who have a diagnosis of 
rhabdomyolysis at any time during the 
performance period 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9781 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not currently being a statin therapy user or 
receiving an order (prescription) for statin 
therapy (e.g., patients with statin-associated 
muscle symptoms or an allergy to statin 
medication therapy, patients who are 
receiving palliative or hospice care, patients 
with active liver disease or hepatic disease 
or insufficiency, patients with end stage renal 
disease [esrd], or other medical 
reasons) 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9782 History of or active diagnosis of familial 
hypercholesterolemia 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
131 G9784 Pathologists/dermatopathologists providing 
a second opinion on a biopsy 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9773 - G9794 
B G9785 Pathology report diagnosing cutaneous basal 
cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, or 
melanoma (to include in situ disease) sent 
from the pathologist/ dermatopathologist to 
the biopsying clinician for review within 7 
days from the time when the tissue specimen 
was received by the pathologist 
M 11:Im 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9786 Pathology report diagnosing cutaneous 
basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell 
carcinoma, or melanoma (to include in situ 
disease) was not sent from the pathologist/ 
dermatopathologist to the biopsying clinician 
for review within 7 days from the time when 
the tissue specimen was received by the 
pathologist 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9787 Patient alive as of the last day of the 
measurement year 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9788 Most recent bp is less than or equal to 
140/90 mm hg 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9789 Blood pressure recorded during inpatient 
stays, emergency room visits, or 
urgent care visits 
M 11:Im 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9790 Most recent bp is greater than 140/90 mm 
hg, or blood pressure not documented M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9791 Most recent tobacco status is 
tobacco free 
M LlJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9792 Most recent tobacco status is not 
tobacco free 
Mll:Im 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9793 Patient is currently on a daily aspirin or 
other antiplatelet 
M 11:Im 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9794 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not on a daily aspirin or other antiplatelet 
(e.g., history of gastrointestinal bleed, intra­
cranial bleed, idiopathic thrombocytopenic 
purpura (ITP), gastric bypass or 
documentation of active anticoagulant use 
during the measurement period) 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
ft- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
11:Im MIPS code 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
283 
G9795 - G9844 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
284 
B G9795 Patient is not currently on a daily aspirin or 
other antiplatelet 
M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9796 Patient is currently on a statin therapy M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9797 Patient is not on a statin therapy 
M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9805 Patients who use hospice services any 
time during the measurement period 
M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9806 Patients who received cervical cytology 
or an HPV test 
!i! M 11Jm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9807 Patients who did not receive cervical 
cytology or an HPV test 
!i! M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9812 Patient died including all deaths occurring 
during the hospitalization in which the 
operation was performed, even if after 
30 days, and those deaths occurring after 
discharge from the hospital, but within 
30 days of the procedure 
M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9813 Patient did not die within 30 days of the 
procedure or during the index 
hospitalization 
M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9818 Documentation of sexual activity 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9819 Patients who use hospice services any time 
during the measurement period 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9820 Documentation of a chlamydia screening test 
with proper follow-up 
M
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9821 No documentation of a chlamydia screening 
test with proper follow-up 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9822 Patients who had an endometrial 
ablation procedure during the 12 months 
prior to the index date ( exclusive of the 
index date) 
!j! M tl'm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9823 Endometrial sampling or hysteroscopy with 
biopsy and results documented during the 
12 months prior to the index date 
( exclusive of the index date) of the 
endometrial ablation 
!i! M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9824 Endometrial sampling or hysteroscopy 
with biopsy and results not documented 
during the 12 months prior to the index 
date ( exclusive of the index date) of the 
endometrial ablation 
!i! M tl'm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9830 HER-2/neu positive 
!i! M IIJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9831 AJCC Stage at breast cancer diagnosis 
= II Or Ill 
M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9832 AJCC Stage at breast cancer diagnosis 
= I (la Or lb} And t-Stage At breast cancer 
diagnosis does not equal= T1, T1A, 
T1 B 
M lillm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9838 Patient has metastatic disease at 
diagnosis 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9839 Anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody 
therapy 
M tl'm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9840 RAS (KRAS and NRAS) gene mutation 
testing performed before initiation of anti-
EGFR moab 
M tl'm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9841 RAS (KRAS and NRAS) gene mutation 
testing not performed before initiation of anti­
EGFR moab 
M IIJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9842 Patient has metastatic disease at 
diagnosis 
M tl'm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9843 RAS (KRAS and NRAS) gene 
mutation 
M IIJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9844 Patient did not receive Anti-EGFR 
monoclonal antibody therapy 
M tl'm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
.._ Revised code 
Eal Carrier judgment 
I!) Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
[31 G9845 Patient received Anti-EGFR monoclonal 
antibody therapy 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9846 Patients who died from cancer 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M lilm 
[31 G9847 Patient received systemic cancer-directed 
therapy in the last 14 days of life 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9848 Patient did not receive systemic cancer­
directed therapy in the last 14 days of 
life 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9858 Patient enrolled in hospice 
M tllm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9859 Patients who died from cancer 
M E 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9860 Patient spent less than three days in 
hospice care 
M E 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9861 Patient spent greater than or equal to 
three days in hospice care 
M E 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9862 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
recommending at least a 10 year follow-up 
interval (e.g., inadequate prep, familial or 
personal history of colonic polyps, patient 
had no adenoma and age is = 66 years 
old, or life expectancy< 10 years old, 
other medical reasons) 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
[31 G9868 Receipt and analysis of remote, 
asynchronous images for dermatologic and/ 
or ophthalmologic evaluation, for use only in 
a Medicare-approved cmmi model, 
less than 10 minutes 
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 02 
[31 G9869 Receipt and analysis of remote, 
asynchronous images for dermatologic and/ 
or ophthalmologic evaluation, for use only 
in a Medicare-approved cmmi model, 
10-20 minutes
B 
BETOS: M5D Specialist - other
Price established by carriers
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q2 
G9845 - G9876 
[31 G9870 Receipt and analysis of remote, 
asynchronous images for dermatologic and/ 
or ophthalmologic evaluation, for use only 
in a Medicare-approved cmmi model, more 
than 20 minutes 
s 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q2 
[31 G9873 First Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program 
(MDPP) core session was attended by an 
MDPP beneficiary under the MDPP Expanded 
Model (EM). A core session is an MDPP 
service that: (1) is furnished by an MDPP 
supplier during months 1 through 6 of the 
MDPP services period; (2) is approximately 
1 hour in length; and (3) adheres to a CDC­
approved OPP curriculum for core sessions M
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9874 Four total Medicare Diabetes Prevention 
Program (MDPP) core sessions were 
attended by an MDPP beneficiary under 
the MDPP Expanded Model (EM). A core 
session is an MDPP service that: (1) is 
furnished by an MDPP supplier during 
months 1 through 6 of the MDPP services 
period; (2) is approximately 1 hour in length; 
and (3) adheres to a CDC-approved OPP 
curriculum for core sessions. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9875 Nine total Medicare Diabetes Prevention 
Program (MDPP) core sessions were 
attended by an MDPP beneficiary under 
the MDPP Expanded Model (EM). A core 
session is an MDPP service that: (1) is 
furnished by an MDPP supplier during 
months 1 through 6 of the MDPP services 
period; (2) is approximately 1 hour in length; 
and (3) adheres to a CDC-approved OPP 
curriculum for core sessions 
M 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
[31 G9876 Two Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program 
(MDPP) core maintenance sessions (MS) 
were attended by an MDPP beneficiary in 
months (mo) 7-9 under the MDPP Expanded 
Model (EM). A core maintenance session 
is an MDPP service that: (1) is furnished 
by an MDPP supplier during months 7 
through 12 of the MDPP services period; (2) 
is approximately 1 hour in length; and (3) 
adheres to a CDC-approved OPP curriculum 
for maintenance sessions. The beneficiary did 
not achieve at least 5% weight loss (WL) from 
his/her baseline weight, as measured by at 
least one in-person weight measurement at a 
core maintenance session in months 7-9. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
E1JI Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
lilm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
285 
G9877 - G9884 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
286 
131 G9877 Two Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program 
(MDPP) core maintenance sessions (MS) 
were attended by an MDPP beneficiary 
in months (mo) 10-12 under the MDPP 
Expanded Model (EM). A core maintenance 
session is an MDPP service that: (1) is 
furnished by an MDPP supplier during 
months 7 through 12 of the MDPP services 
period; (2) is approximately 1 hour in length; 
and (3) adheres to a CDC-approved OPP 
curriculum for maintenance sessions. 
The beneficiary did not achieve at least 
5% weight loss (WL) from his/her baseline 
weight, as measured by at least one 
in-person weight measurement at a core 
maintenance session in months 10-12. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9878 Two Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program 
(MDPP) core maintenance sessions (MS) 
were attended by an MDPP beneficiary in 
months (mo) 7-9 under the MDPP Expanded 
Model (EM). A core maintenance session 
is an MDPP service that: (1) is furnished 
by an MDPP supplier during months 7 
through 12 of the MDPP services period; (2) 
is approximately 1 hour in length; and (3) 
adheres to a CDC-approved OPP curriculum 
for maintenance sessions. The beneficiary 
achieved at least 5% weight loss (WL) from 
his/her baseline weight, as measured by at 
least one in-person weight measurement at 
a core maintenance session in months 7-9. M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9879 Two Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program 
(MDPP) core maintenance sessions (MS) 
were attended by an MDPP beneficiary 
in months (mo) 10-12 under the MDPP 
Expanded Model (EM). A core maintenance 
session is an MDPP service that: (1) is 
furnished by an MDPP supplier during 
months 7 through 12 of the MDPP services 
period; (2) is approximately 1 hour in length; 
and (3) adheres to a CDC-approved OPP 
curriculum for maintenance sessions. The 
beneficiary achieved at least 5% weight 
loss (WL) from his/her baseline weight, as 
measured by at least one in-person weight 
measurement at a core maintenance 
session in months 10-12 
M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9880 The MDPP beneficiary achieved at least 
5% weight loss (WL) from his/her baseline 
weight in months 1-12 of the MDPP services 
period under the MDPP Expanded Model 
(EM). This is a one-time payment available 
when a beneficiary first achieves at least 5% 
weight loss from baseline as measured by 
l3I G9881
an in-person weight measurement at a core 
session or core maintenance session. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
The MDPP beneficiary achieved at least 
9% weight loss (WL) from his/her baseline 
weight in months 1-24 under the MDPP 
Expanded Model (EM). This is a one-time 
payment available when a beneficiary 
first achieves at least 9% weight loss from 
baseline as measured by an in-person 
weight measurement at a core session, 
core maintenance session, or ongoing 
maintenance session. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9882 Two Medicare Diabetes Prevention 
Program (MDPP) ongoing maintenance 
sessions (MS) were attended by an MDPP 
beneficiary in months (mo) 13-15 under the 
MDPP Expanded Model (EM). An ongoing 
maintenance session is an MDPP service 
that: (1) is furnished by an MDPP supplier 
during months 13 through 24 of the MDPP 
services period; (2) is approximately 1 hour 
in length; and (3) adheres to a CDC­
approved OPP curriculum for maintenance 
sessions. The beneficiary maintained at least 
5% weight loss (WL) from his/her baseline 
weight, as measured by at least one in­
person weight measurement at an ongoing 
maintenance session in months 13-15. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9883 Two Medicare Diabetes Prevention 
Program (MDPP) ongoing maintenance 
sessions (MS) were attended by an MDPP 
beneficiary in months (mo) 16-18 under the 
MDPP Expanded Model (EM). An ongoing 
maintenance session is an MDPP service 
that: (1) is furnished by an MDPP supplier 
during months 13 through 24 of the MDPP 
services period; (2) is approximately 1 hour 
in length; and (3) adheres to a CDC­
approved OPP curriculum for maintenance 
sessions. The beneficiary maintained at least 
5% weight loss (WL) from his/her baseline 
weight, as measured by at least one in­
person weight measurement at an ongoing 
maintenance session in months 16-18. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9884 Two Medicare Diabetes Prevention 
Program (MDPP) ongoing maintenance 
sessions (MS) were attended by an MDPP 
beneficiary in months (mo) 19-21 under the 
MDPP Expanded Model (EM). An ongoing 
maintenance session is an MDPP service 
that: (1) is furnished by an MDPP supplier 
during months 13 through 24 of the MDPP 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
Ill Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
services period; (2) is approximately 1 hour 
in length; and (3) adheres to a CDC­
approved DPP curriculum for maintenance 
sessions. The beneficiary maintained at least 
5% weight loss (WL) from his/her baseline 
weight, as measured by at least one in­
person weight measurement at an ongoing 
maintenance session in months 19-21. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9885 Two Medicare Diabetes Prevention 
Program (MDPP) ongoing maintenance 
sessions (MS) were attended by an MDPP 
beneficiary in months (mo) 22-24 under the 
MDPP Expanded Model (EM). An ongoing 
maintenance session is an MDPP service 
that: (1) is furnished by an MDPP supplier 
during months 13 through 24 of the MDPP 
services period; (2) is approximately 1 hour 
in length; and (3) adheres to a CDC­
approved DPP curriculum for maintenance 
sessions. 
The beneficiary maintained at least 5% 
weight loss (WL) from his/her baseline 
weight, as measured by at least one in­
person weight measurement at an ongoing 
maintenance session in months 22-24. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9890 Bridge Payment: A one-time payment for the 
first Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program 
(MDPP) core session, core maintenance 
session, or ongoing maintenance session 
furnished by an MDPP supplier to an MDPP 
beneficiary during months 1-24 of the MDPP 
Expanded Model (EM) who has previously 
received MDPP services from a different 
MDPP supplier under the MDPP Expanded 
Model. A supplier may only receive one 
bridge payment per MDPP beneficiary. 
M 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9891 MDPP session reported as a line-item on 
a claim for a payable MDPP Expanded 
Model (EM) HCPCS code for a session 
furnished by the billing supplier under the 
MDPP Expanded Model and counting toward 
achievement of the attendance performance 
goal for the payable MDPP Expanded Model 
HCPCS code.(This code is for reporting 
purposes only). 
M 
BETOS: Y1 
Other - Medicare fee schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9892 Documentation of patient reason(s) for not 
performing a dilated macular 
examination 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9885 - G9900 
B G9893 Dilated macular exam was not performed, 
reason not otherwise specified 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
RADIOLOGY SERVICES PROSTATE (G9894-G9897) 
B G9894 Androgen deprivation therapy prescribed/ 
administered in combination with external 
beam radiotherapy to the prostate 
cl' M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9895 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not prescribing/administering androgen 
deprivation therapy in combination with 
external beam radiotherapy to the prostate 
(e.g., salvage therapy) 
cl' M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9896 Documentation of patient reason(s) for 
not prescribing/administering androgen 
deprivation therapy in combination with 
external beam radiotherapy to the 
prostate 
cl' M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9897 Patients who were not prescribed/ 
administered androgen deprivation 
therapy in combination with external beam 
radiotherapy to the prostate, reason not 
given 
c/' M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
GERIATRIC CARE MANAGEMENT (G9898) 
B G9898 Patients age 66 or older in institutional 
special needs plans (snp) or residing in long­
term care with pos code 32, 33, 34, 54, or 56 
for more than 90 consecutive days during the 
measurement period 
e M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BREAST SCREENING/DIAGNOSTICS/THERAPEUTICS 
(G9899-G9900) 
B G9899 Screening, diagnostic, film, digital or digital 
breast tomosynthesis (3D) mammography 
results documented and reviewed 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9900 Screening, diagnostic, film, digital or digital 
breast tomosynthesis (3D) mammography 
results were not documented and reviewed, 
reason not otherwise specified 
M llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Elli Paid under the DMEfee schedule 
A - Y = APC Status indicator 
llJm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
287 
G9901 - G9922 
ADDITIONAL GERIATRIC CARE MANAGEMENT {G9901) 
B G9901 Patient age 66 or older in institutional special 
needs plans (snp) or residing in long-term 
care with pos code 32, 33, 34, 54, or 56 for 
more than 90 consecutive days during 
the measurement period 
O M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
TOBACCO SCREENING {G9902-G9908) 
13 G9902 Patient screened for tobacco use and 
identified as a tobacco user 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9903 Patient screened for tobacco use and 
identified as a tobacco non-user 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Procedures/ Professional Services {G0008-G9999) 
ANTI-TNF DIAGNOSTICS FOR HBV STATUS (G9912-G9915) 
13 G9912 Hepatitis B virus (HBV) status assessed and 
results interpreted prior to initiating anti-TNF 
(tumor necrosis factor) therapy 
M l1i!W 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9913 Hepatitis b virus (HBV) status not assessed 
and results interpreted prior to initiating anti­
tnf (tumor necrosis factor) therapy, 
reason not otherwise specified 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.a. 13 G9914 Patient initiated an anti-tnf agent 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9915 No record of HBV results documented M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9905 Patient not screened for tobacco use 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
FUNCTIONAL STATUS CODES (G9916-G9918) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9906 Patient identified as a tobacco user received 
tobacco cessation intervention during the 
measurement period or in the six months 
prior to the measurement period (counseling 
and/or pharmacotherapy) 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9908 Patient identified as tobacco user did not 
receive tobacco cessation intervention during 
the measurement period or in the six months 
prior to the measurement period (counseling 
and/or pharmacotherapy) 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
OTHER GERIATRIC CARE MANAGEMENT (G9910) 
13 G9910 Patients age 66 or older in institutional 
special needs plans (snp) or residing in long­
term care with pos code 32, 33, 34, 54 or 56 
for more than 90 consecutive days 
during the measurement period 
o M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BREAST CANCER CLASSIFICATION (G9911) 
13 G9911 Clinically node negative (t1 n0m0 or t2n0m0) 
invasive breast cancer before or after 
neoadjuvant systemic therapy 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9916 Functional status performed once in the last 
12 months 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9917 Documentation of advanced stage dementia 
and caregiver knowledge is limited 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9918 Functional status not performed, 
reason not otherwise specified 
M l1i!W 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
SCREENING (G9919-G9931) 
13 G9919 Screening performed and positive and 
provision of recommendations 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9920 Screening performed and negative 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9921 No screening performed, partial screening 
performed or positive screen without 
recommendations and reason is not 
given or otherwise specified 
M tlIItJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
13 G9922 Safety concerns screen provided and 
if positive then documented mitigation 
recommendations 
M JZim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!J Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
288 
CPr- is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G9923 Safety concerns screen provided and 
negative 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9925 Safety concerns screening not provided, 
reason not otherwise specified 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9926 Safety concerns screening positive 
screen is without provision of mitigation 
recommendations, including but not limited 
to referral to other resources 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9928 Fda-approved anticoagulant not prescribed, 
reason not given 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9929 Patient with transient or reversible cause 
of AF (e.g., pneumonia, hyperthyroidism, 
pregnancy, cardiac surgery) 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9930 Patients who are receiving comfort 
care only 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9931 Documentation of CHA2DS2-VASC risk 
score of O or 1 for men; or 0, 1, or 2 for 
women 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
GERIATRIC CARE MANAGEMENT AND OTHER SERVICES 
(G9938-G9940) 
 B G9938 Patients aged 66 or older in institutional 
special needs plans (snp) or residing in long­
term care with pos code 32, 33, 34, 54, or 56 
for more than 90 consecutive days during the 
six months prior to the measurement period 
through december 31 of the measurement 
period 
O M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9939 Pathologists/dermatopathologists is the 
same clinician who performed the 
biopsy 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9940 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not on a statin (e.g., pregnancy, in vitro 
fertilization, clomiphene Rx, ESRD, cirrhosis, 
muscular pain and disease during the 
measurement period or prior year) 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
G9923 - G9958 
PAIN ASSESSMENT (G9943-G9949) 
B G9943 Back pain was not measured by the 
visual analog scale (vas) or numeric pain 
scale at three months (6 - 20 weeks) 
postoperatively 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9945 Patient had cancer, acute fracture or 
infection related to the lumbar spine or 
patient had neuromuscular, idiopathic or 
congenital lumbar scoliosis 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9946 Back pain was not measured by the 
visual analog scale (vas) or numeric 
pain scale at one year (9 to 15 months) 
postoperatively 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9949 Leg pain was not measured by the 
visual analog scale (vas) or numeric pain 
scale at three months (6 - 20 weeks) 
postoperatively 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
MEDICATIONS (ANTIEMETICS AND ANTIMICROBIALS) 
(G9954-G9961) 
B G9954 Patient exhibits 2 or more risk factors for 
post-operative vomiting 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9955 Cases in which an inhalational anesthetic is 
used only for induction 
M llJW 
l;!ETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9956 Patient received combination therapy 
consisting of at least two prophylactic 
pharmacologic anti-emetic agents of 
different classes preoperatively and/or 
intraoperatively 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9957 Documentation of medical reason for not 
receiving combination therapy consisting 
of at least two prophylactic pharmacologic 
anti-emetic agents of different classes 
preoperatively and/or intraoperatively 
(e.g., intolerance or other medical 
reason) 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9958 Patient did not receive combination therapy 
consisting of at least two prophylactic 
pharmacologic anti-emetic agents of 
different classes preoperatively and/or 
intraoperatively 
M llJW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
¦ Female only 
· 0 Age
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
llJW MIPS code 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
289 
G9959 - G9979 
B G9959 Systemic antimicrobials not prescribed M cm 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9960 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
prescribing systemic antimicrobials 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9961 Systemic antimicrobials prescribed 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EMBOLIZATION (G9962-G9963) 
B G9962 Embolization endpoints are documented 
separately for each embolized vessel and 
ovarian artery angiography or embolization 
performed in the presence of variant uterine 
artery anatomy 
-9- M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9963 Embolization endpoints are not documented 
separately for each embolized vessel or 
ovarian artery angiography or embolization 
not performed in the presence of variant 
uterine artery anatomy 
-9- M cm 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
SCREENING, WELLNESS AND PHYSICIAN VISITS 
(G9964-G9970) 
B G9964 Patient received at least one well-child visit 
with a PCP during the performance 
period 
OM 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9965 Patient did not receive at least one well-child 
visit with a PCP during the performance 
period 
OM 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9968 Patient was referred to another clinician or 
specialist during the measurement 
period 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9969 Clinician who referred the patient to another 
clinician received a report from the clinician 
to whom the patient was referred 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9970 Clinician who referred the patient to another 
clinician did not receive a report from the 
clinician to whom the patient was 
referred 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
VISION ASSESSMENT (G9974-G9975) 
B G9974 Dilated macular exam performed, including 
documentation of the presence or absence 
of macular thickening or geographic atrophy 
or hemorrhage and the level of macular 
degeneration severity 
M cm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9975 Documentation of medical reason(s) 
for not performing a dilated macular 
examination 
M cm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
REMOTE IN-HOUSE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT 
ASSESSMENT (G9978-G9987) 
B G9978 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only 
in a Medicare-approved Bundled Payments 
for Care Improvement Advanced (BPCI 
Advanced) model episode of care, which 
requires these 3 key components: 
•
A problem focused history;
•
A problem focused examination; and
•
Straightforward medical decision making,
furnished in real time using interactive
audio and video technology.
Counseling and coordination of care 
with other physicians, other qualified 
health care professionals or agencies are 
provided consistent with the nature of the 
problem(s) and the needs of the patient or 
the family or both. Usually, the presenting 
problem(s) are self limited or minor. Typically, 
10 minutes are spent with the patient or 
family or both via real time, audio and video 
intercommunications technology. 
B 
BETOS: M1A 
Office visits - new 
Price established by carriers 
B G9979 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only 
in a Medicare-approved Bundled Payments 
for Care Improvement Advanced (BPCI 
Advanced) model episode of care, which 
requires these 3 key components: 
•
An expanded problem focused history;
•
An expanded problem focused
examination;
•
Straightforward medical decision making,
furnished in real time using interactive
audio and video technology.
Counseling and coordination of care with 
other physicians, other qualified health care 
professionals or agencies are provided 
consistent with the nature of the problem(s) 
and the needs of the patient or the family 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!il Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
290 
CPT- is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures/ Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
or both. Usually, the presenting problem(s) 
are of low to moderate severity. Typically, 
20 minutes are spent with the patient or 
family or both via real time, audio and video 
intercommunications technology. 
B 
BETOS: M1A Office visits - new 
Price established by carriers 
B G9980 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only 
in a Medicare-approved Bundled Payments 
for Care Improvement Advanced (BPCI 
Advanced) model episode of care, which 
requires these 3 key components: 
• A detailed history;
• A detailed examination;
• Medical decision making of low
complexity, furnished in real time using
interactive audio and video technology.
Counseling and coordination of care with 
other physicians, other qualified health care 
professionals or agencies are provided 
consistent with the nature of the problem( s) 
and the needs of the patient or the family 
or both. Usually, the presenting problem(s) 
are of moderate severity. Typically, 
30 minutes are spent with the patient or 
family or both via real time, audio and video 
intercommunications technology. 
B 
BETOS: M1A Office visits - new 
Price established by carriers 
B G9981 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only 
in a Medicare-approved Bundled Payments 
for Care Improvement Advanced (BPCI 
Advanced) model episode of care, which 
requires these 3 key components: 
• A comprehensive history;
• A comprehensive examination;
• Medical decision making of moderate
complexity, furnished in real time using
interactive audio and video technology.
Counseling and coordination of care with 
other physicians, other qualified health care 
professionals or agencies are provided 
consistent with the nature of the problem( s) 
and the needs of the patient or the family 
or both. Usually, the presenting problem(s) 
are of moderate to high severity. Typically, 
45 minutes are spent with the patient or 
family or both via real time, audio and video 
intercommunications technology. 
B 
BETOS: M1A Office visits - new 
Price established by carriers 
B G9982 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of a new patient for use only 
in a Medicare-approved Bundled Payments 
for Care Improvement Advanced (BPCI 
G9980 - G9984 
Advanced) model episode of care, which 
requires these 3 key components: 
• A comprehensive history;
• A comprehensive examination; 
• Medical decision making of high 
complexity, furnished in real time using 
interactive audio and video technology. 
Counseling and coordination of care with 
other physicians, other qualified health care 
professionals or agencies are provided 
consistent with the nature of the problem(s) 
and the needs of the patient or the family 
or both. Usually, the presenting problem(s) 
are of moderate to high severity. Typically, 
60 minutes are spent with the patient or 
family or both via real time, audio and video 
intercommunications technology. 
B 
BETOS: M1A 
Office visits - new 
Price established by carriers 
B G9983 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of an established patient for 
use only in a Medicare-approved Bundled 
Payments for Care Improvement Advanced 
(BPCI Advanced) model episode of care, 
which requires at least 2 of the following 
3 key components: 
• A problem focused history; 
• A problem focused examination; 
• Straightforward medical decision making, 
furnished in real time using interactive
audio and video technology. 
Counseling and coordination of care 
with other physicians, other qualified 
health care professionals or agencies are 
provided consistent with the nature of the 
problem(s) and the needs of the patient or 
the family or both. Usually, the presenting 
problem(s) are self limited or minor. Typically, 
1 O minutes are spent with the patient or 
family or both via real time, audio and video 
intercommunications technology. 
B
BETOS: M1 B 
Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
B G9984 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of an established patient for 
use only in a Medicare-approved Bundled 
Payments for Care Improvement Advanced 
(BPCI Advanced) model episode of care, 
which requires at least 2 of the following 
3 key components: 
• An expanded problem focused history; 
• An expanded problem focused
examination;
• Medical decision making of low
complexity, furnished in real time using 
interactive audio and video technology.
d" Male only 
.!?- Female only 
(' Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2- Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Ell) Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A - Y = APC Status indicator 
lil!m MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
291 
G9985 - G9996 
Procedures / Professional Services (GOOO8-G9999) 
292 
Counseling and coordination of care with 
other physicians, other qualified health care 
professionals or agencies are provided 
consistent with the nature of the problem(s) 
and the needs of the patient or the family 
or both. Usually, the presenting problem(s) 
are of low to moderate severity. Typically, 
15 minutes are spent with the patient or 
family or both via real time, audio and video 
intercommunications technology. 
B 
BETOS: M1B 
Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
G9985 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of an established patient for 
use only in a Medicare-approved Bundled 
Payments for Care Improvement Advanced 
(BPCI Advanced) model episode of care, 
which requires at least 2 of the following 
3 key components: 
• A detailed history; 
• A detailed examination; 
• Medical decision making of moderate 
complexity, furnished in real time using 
interactive audio and video technology. 
Counseling and coordination of care with 
other physicians, other qualified health care 
professionals or agencies are provided 
consistent with the nature of the problem(s) 
and the needs of the patient or the family 
or both. Usually, the presenting problem(s) 
are of moderate to high severity. Typically, 
25 minutes are spent with the patient or 
family or both via real time, audio and video 
intercommunications technology. 
B 
BETOS: M1 B 
Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
B G9986 Remote in-home visit for the evaluation and 
management of an established patient for 
use only in a Medicare-approved Bundled 
Payments for Care Improvement Advanced 
(BPCI Advanced) model episode of care, 
which requires at least 2 of the following 
3 key components: 
• A comprehensive history;
• A comprehensive examination;
• Medical decision making of high 
complexity, furnished in real time using 
interactive audio and video technology. 
Counseling and coordination of care with 
other physicians, other qualified health care 
professionals or agencies are provided 
consistent with the nature of the problem(s) 
and the needs of the patient or the family 
or both. Usually, the presenting problem(s) 
are of moderate to high severity. Typically, 
40 minutes are spent with the patient or 
family or both via real time, audio and video 
intercommunications technology. 
B 
BETOS: M 1 B 
Office visits - established 
Price established by carriers 
B G9987 Bundled Payments for Care Improvement 
Advanced (BPCI Advanced) model home 
visit for patient assessment performed by 
clinical staff for an individual not considered 
homebound, including, but not necessarily 
limited to patient assessment of clinical 
status, safety/fall prevention, functional 
status/ambulation, medication reconciliation/ 
management, compliance with orders/plan 
of care, performance of activities of daily 
living, and ensuring beneficiary connections 
to community and other services; for use 
only for a BPCI Advanced model episode of 
care; may not be billed for a 30-day period 
covered by a transitional care management 
code. 
B 
BETOS: M5D 
Specialist - other 
Price established by carriers 
PALLIATIVE CARE SERVICES (G9988-G9999) 
B G9988 Palliative care services provided to patient 
any time during the measurement period 
M 
tm) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.t. B G9990 Patient did not receive any pneumococcal 
conjugate or polysaccharide vaccine on or 
after their 19th birthday and before the 
end of the measurement period 
M tmJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.t. B G9991 Patient received any pneumococcal 
conjugate or polysaccharide vaccine on or 
after their 19th birthday and before the 
end of the measurement period 
M tmJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9992 Palliative care services used by patient any 
time during the measurement period 
M tmJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9993 Patient was provided palliative care 
services any time during the 
measurement period 
M tmJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9994 Patient is using palliative care services any 
time during the measurement period 
M tmJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B G9996 Documentation stating the patient has 
received or is currently receiving 
palliative or hospice care 
M tmJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
.t. Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Procedures / Professional Services (G0008-G9999) 
B G9997 Documentation of patient pregnancy anytime 
during the measurement period prior to and 
including the current encounter 
ff M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
"' B G9998 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
an interval of less than 3 years since the 
last colonoscopy (e.g., last colonoscopy 
incomplete, last colonoscopy had inadequate 
prep, piecemeal removal of adenomas, or 
sessile serrated polyps >= 20 mm in size, 
last colonoscopy found greater than 10 
adenomas, lower gastrointestinal bleeding, 
or patient at high risk for colon cancer due 
to underlying medical history ((i.e. crohn's 
disease, ulcerative colitis, personal or family 
history of colon cancer, hereditary colorectal 
cancer syndromes]) 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!JI G9999 Documentation of system reason(s) for an 
interval of less than 3 years since the last 
colonoscopy (e.g., unable to locate previous 
colonoscopy report, previous colonoscopy 
report was incomplete) 
M cm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2 
d" Male only 
ff Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
llLlIJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
G9997 - G9999 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
LllW MIPS code 
293 
--------- ----· 
NOTES 
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Treatment (H0001-H2041) 
ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE TREATMENT 
(H0001-H2041) 
DRUG, ALCOHOL, AND BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES 
(H0001-H0030) 
D H0001 Alcohol and/or drug assessment 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
D 
D 
D 
D 
D 
D 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2 
H0002 Behavioral health screening to 
determine eligibility for admission to 
treatment program 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
H0003 Alcohol and/or drug screening; laboratory 
analysis of specimens for presence of 
alcohol and/or drugs 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
H0004 Behavioral health counseling and therapy, 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
H0005 Alcohol and/or drug services; group 
counseling by a clinician 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
H0006 Alcohol and/or drug services; case 
management 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
H0007 Alcohol and/or drug services; crisis 
intervention ( outpatient) 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0008 Alcohol and/or drug services; sub-acute 
detoxification (hospital inpatient) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0009 Alcohol and/or drug services; acute 
detoxification (hospital inpatient) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
11m 
11m 
D H0010 Alcohol and/or drug services; sub-acute 
detoxification (residential addiction program 
inpatient) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0011 Alcohol and/or drug services; acute 
detoxification (residential addiction program 
inpatient) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
H000l - H0021 
D H0012 Alcohol and/or drug services; sub-acute 
detoxification (residential addiction program 
outpatient) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0013 Alcohol and/or drug services; acute 
detoxification (residential addiction program 
outpatient) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0014 Alcohol and/or drug services; ambulatory 
detoxification 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0015 Alcohol and/or drug services; intensive 
outpatient (treatment program that operates 
at least 3 hours/day and at least 3 days/week 
and is based on an individualized treatment 
plan), including assessment, counseling; 
crisis intervention, and activity therapies or 
education 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0016 Alcohol and/or drug services; medical/ 
somatic (medical intervention in ambulatory 
setting) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0017 Behavioral health; residential (hospital 
residential treatment program), without 
room and board, per diem 
11m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0018 Behavioral health; short-term residential 
(non-hospital residential treatment program), 
without room and board, per diem 
11m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0019 Behavioral health; long-term residential 
(non-medical, non-acute care in a residential 
treatment program where stay is typically 
longer than 30 days), without room and 
board, per diem 
11m 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0020 Alcohol and/or drug services; methadone 
administration and/or service (provision of 
the drug by a licensed program) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0021 Alcohol and/or drug training service (for staff 
and personnel not employed by providers) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Male only 
!f Female only 
0 Age 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
(Im MIPS code 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
295 
H0022 - H0044 
D H0022 Alcohol and/or drug intervention service 
(planned facilitation) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0023 Behavioral health outreach service (planned 
approach to reach a targeted population) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0024 Behavioral health prevention information 
dissemination service (one-way direct or 
non-direct contact with service audiences to 
affect knowledge and attitude) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0025 Behavioral health prevention education 
service (delivery of services with target 
population to affect knowledge, attitude 
and/or behavior) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0026 Alcohol and/or drug prevention process 
service, community-based (delivery of 
services to develop skills of impactors) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0027 Alcohol and/or drug prevention 
environmental service (broad range of 
external activities geared toward modifying 
systems in order to mainstream prevention 
through policy and law) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0028 Alcohol and/or drug prevention problem 
identification and referral service 
(e.g., student assistance and employee 
assistance programs), does not include 
assessment 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0029 Alcohol and/or drug prevention alternatives 
service (services for populations that exclude 
alcohol and other drug use e.g., alcohol free 
social events) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0030 Behavioral health hotline service 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAMS AND MEDICATION 
ADMINISTRATION TRAINING (H0031-H0040) 
D H0031 Mental health assessment, 
by non-physician 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
tlm 
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Treatment (H0001-H2041) 
D H0032 Mental health service plan development by 
non-physician 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0033 Oral medication administration, direct 
observation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0034 Medication training and support, 
per 15 minutes 
tlm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0035 Mental health partial hospitalization, 
treatment, less than 24 hours 
tlm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0036 Community psychiatric supportive treatment, 
face-to-face, per 15 minutes 
tlm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0037 Community psychiatric supportive treatment 
program, per diem 
lilm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0038 Self-help/peer services, per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0039 Assertive community treatment, face-to-face, 
per 15 minutes 
tlm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0040 Assertive community treatment program, 
per diem 
tlim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
FOSTER CARE (H0041, H0042) 
D H0041 Foster care, child, non-therapeutic, 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0042 Foster care, child, non-therapeutic, 
per month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
SUPPORTED HOUSING (H0043, H0044) 
D H0043 Supported housing, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0044 Supported housing, per month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code 
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
El Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare· 
la Non-covered by Medicare 
{ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
296 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Treatment (H0001-H2041) 
MISCELLANEOUS DRUG AND ALCOHOL SERVICES 
(H0045-H0050) 
D H0045 Respite care services, not in the home, 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0046 Mental health services, not otherwise 
specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0047 Alcohol and/or other drug abuse services, 
not otherwise specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0048 Alcohol and/or other drug testing: collection 
and handling only, specimens other than 
blood 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H0049 Alcohol and/or drug screening 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H00S0 Alcohol and/or drug services, brief 
intervention, per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PRENATAL CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING ASSESSMENT 
(H1000-H1011) 
D H1000 Prenatal care, at-risk assessment 
i o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
D H1001 Prenatal care, at-risk enhanced service; 
antepartum management 
i O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
D H1002 Prenatal care, at risk enhanced service; 
care coordination 
i o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D H1003 Prenatal care, at-risk enhanced service; 
education 
i o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Cllnic: 2002, Q1 
D H1004 Prenatal care, at-risk enhanced service; 
follow-up home visit 
i O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
H0045 - H2016 
D H1005 Prenatal care, at-risk enhanced service 
package (includes H1001-H1004) 
io 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D H1010 Non-medical family planning education, 
per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H1011 Family assessment by licensed behavioral 
health professional for state defined 
purposes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
OTHER MENTAL HEALTH AND COMMUNITY SUPPORT 
SERVICES (H2000-H2041) 
D H2000 Comprehensive multidisciplinary 
evaluation 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2001 Rehabilitation program, per 1/2 day 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H201 0 Comprehensive medication services, 
per 15 minutes 
tlim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2011 Crisis intervention service, 
per 15 minutes 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2012 Behavioral health day treatment, 
per hour 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2013 Psychiatric health facility service, 
per diem 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2014 Skills training and development, 
per 15 minutes 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2015 Comprehensive community 
support services, per 15 minutes 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2016 Comprehensive community support · 
services, per diem 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ri" Male only 
i Female only 
fl Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A- Y = APC Status indicator
lil!m MIPS code
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
297 
H2017 - H2041 
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Treatment (HOOO 1-H2041) 
298 
D H2017 Psychosocial rehabilitation services, 
per 15 minutes 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2018 Psychosocial rehabilitation services, 
per diem 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2019 Therapeutic behavioral services, 
per 15 minutes 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2020 Therapeutic behavioral services, 
per diem 
mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2021 Community-based wrap-around services, 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2022 Community-based wrap-around services, 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2023 Supported employment, per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2024 Supported employment, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2025 Ongoing support to maintain employment, 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2026 Ongoing support to maintain employment, 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2027 Psychoeducational service, per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2028 Sexual offender treatment service, 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2029 Sexual offender treatment service, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2030 Mental health clubhouse services, 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2031 Mental health clubhouse services, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2032 Activity therapy, per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2033 Multisystemic therapy for juveniles, 
per 15 minutes 
O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2034 Alcohol and/or drug abuse halfway house 
services, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2035 Alcohol and/or other drug treatment program, 
per hour 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2036 Alcohol and/or other drug treatment program, 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D H2037 Developmental delay prevention activities, 
dependent child of client, per 15 minutes 
0 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2 
D H2038 Skills training and development, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• D H2040 Coordinated specialty care, team-based,
for first episode psychosis, per month 
o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• D H2041 Coordinated specialty care, team-based,
for first episode psychosis, per encounter 
O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
.._ Revised code 
Ii Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
DRUGS ADMINISTERED OTHER THAN ORAL 
METHOD (J0120-J8999) 
DRUGS, ADMINISTERED BY INJECTION (J0120-J7175) 
8 J0120 Injection, tetracycline, 
up to 250 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
B J0121 Injection, omadacycline, 1 mg 
K2 O ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NUZYRA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B J0122 Injection, eravacycline, 1 mg 
N1 O ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: XERAVA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B J0129 Injection, abatacept, 10 mg (code 
may be used for Medicare when drug 
administered under the direct supervision 
of a physician, not for use when drug 
is self administered) 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ABATACEPT, ORENCIA, ORENCIA 
CLICKJECT 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q4 
8 J0130 Injection abciximab, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
B J0131 Injection, acetaminophen, not otherwise 
specified, 10 mg 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ACETAMINOPHEN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1; 2023, Q3 
B J0132 Injection, acetylcysteine, 100 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ACETADOTE, ACETYLCYSTEINE, 
ACETYLCYSTEINE INJ, ACETYLCYSTEINE 
INJECTION 
B J0133 Injection, acyclovir, 5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ACYCLOVIR SODIUM 
N1 ASC N 
B J0134 Injection, acetaminophen (fresenius kabi) 
not therapeutically equivalent to J0131, 
10 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ACETAMINOPHEN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B J0135 Injection, adalimumab, 20 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HUMIRA 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3; 2005, 02 
B J0136 Injection, acetaminophen (b braun) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0131, 
10 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ACETAMINOPHEN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
J0120-J0190 
• B J0137 Injection, Acetaminophen (Hikma) Not
Therapeutically Equivalent To JO 131, 
10 Mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ACETAMINOPHEN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
8 J0153 Injection, adenosine, 1 mg (not to be 
used to report any adenosine phosphate 
N 
compounds) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ADENOSINE 
l]J J0171 Injection, Adrenalin, epinephrine, 
0.1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ADRENALIN, EPINEPHRINE, 
EPINEPHRINE HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01; 2023, 01 
8 J0172 Injection, aducanumab-avwa, 
2 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K2 ASC K 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Drugs: ADUHELM 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
8 J0173 Injection, epinephrine (belcher) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0171, 
0.1 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: EPINEPHRINE HCL (BELCHER) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
• B J0174 Injection, lecanemab-irmb, 1 mg
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Drugs: LEQEMBI 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
B J0178 Injection, aflibercept, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: EYLEA 
K2ASC K 
B J0179 Injection, brolucizumab-dbll, 1 mg K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other \:!rugs 
Drugs: BEOVU 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 01 
B J0180 Injection, agalsidase beta, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FABRAZYME 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02 
• B J0184 Injection, amisulpride, 1 mg
O 
BETOS: 01 E 
O\her drugs 
B J0185 Injection, aprepitant, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CINVANTI 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
l]J J0190 Injection, biperiden lactate, 
per 5 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
cl' Male only 
ü Female only 
0 Age 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment Indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
IIJm MIPScode
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
299 
J0200 - J0283 
m J0200 Injection, alatrofloxacin mesylate, 
100 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J0202 Injection, alemtuzumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LEMTRADA 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
m J0205 Injection, alglucerase, 
per 10 units 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02 
K2 ASC K 
K5 ASC E2 
• B J0206 Injection, Allopurinol Sodium, 1 Mg 
o N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ALLOPURINOL, ALOPRIM 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
m J0207 Injection, amifostine, 500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETO$: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
• B J0208 Injection, sodium thiosulfate, 
100 mg 
K2 0 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SODIUM THIOSULFATE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
E J0210 Injection, methyldopate HCI, 
up to 250 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J0215 Injection, alefacept, 0.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K5 ASC E2 
K5 ASC E2 
• B J0216 Injection, alfentanil hydrochloride, 
500 micrograms 
N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
• B J0217 Injection, velmanase alfa-tycv, 1 mg 
O 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
• B J0218 Injection, olipudase alfa-rpcp, 
1 mg 
K2 0 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: XENPOZYME 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
B J0219 Injection, avalglucosidase 
alfa-ngpt, 4 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NEXVIAZYME 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
K2OASC G 
B J0220 Injection, alglucosidase alfa, 10 mg, 
not otherwise specified 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1; 2012, Q1 
B J0221 Injection, alglucosidase alfa, (Lumizyme), 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LUMIZYME 
B J0222 Injection, Patisiran, 0.1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ONPATTRO 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
K2OASC K 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999} 
B J0223 Injection, givosiran, 0.5 mg 
K2 O ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GIVLAARI 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
B J0224 Injection, lumasiran, 0.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K2 ASC G 
Drugs: OXLUMO 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03 
B J0225 Injection, vutrisiran, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K2OASC G 
Drugs: AMVUTTRA 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B J0248 Injection, remdesivir, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VEKLURY 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
E J0256 Injection, alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor 
(human), not otherwise specified, 
OG 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARALAST NP, PROLASTIN-C, 
ZEMAIRA 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2; 2012, Q1 
E J0257 Injection, alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor 
(human), (GLASSIA), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GLASSIA 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q1 
E J0270 Injection, alprostadil, 1.25 mcg (code may be 
used for Medicare when drug administered 
under the direct supervision of a physician, 
not for use when drug is self administered) B 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
E J0275 Alprostadil urethral suppository (code 
may be used for Medicare when drug 
administered under the direct supervision 
of a physician, not for use when drug is self 
administered) 
B 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J0278 Injection, amikacin sulfate, 
100 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AMIKACIN SULFATE 
E J0280 Injection, aminophyllin, 
up to 250 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AMINOPHYLLINE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
N1 ASC N 
m J0282 Injection, amiodarone hydrochloride, 
30 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
m J0283 Injection, amiodarone hydrochloride 
(nexterone), 30 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
N 
• Newcode
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
300 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
1:J J0285 Injection, amphotericin B, 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AMPHOTERICIN B 
[!J J0287 Injection, amphotericin B lipid complex, 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ABELCET 
l:J J0288 Injection, amphotericin B cholesteryl 
sulfate complex, 10 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
[!J J0289 Injection, amphotericin B liposome, 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AMBISOME, AMPHOTERICIN B 
LIPOSOME 
[!J J0290 Injection, ampicillin sodium, 
500 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: AMPICILLIN, AMPICILLIN FOR 
INJECTION, AMPICILLIN SODIUM 
B J0291 Injection, plazomicin, 5 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZEMDRI, ZEMDRI (PLAZOMICIN) 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
1:J J0295 Injection, ampicillin sodium/sulbactam 
sodium, per 1.5 gm 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AMPICILLIN-SULBACTAM, 
UNASYN 1.5GM, UNASYN 15GM, UNASYN 
3GM 
1:J J0300 Injection, amobarbital, 
up to 125 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K2 ASC K 
[!J J0330 Injection, succinylcholine chloride, 
up to 20 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J0348 Injection, anidulafungin, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ERAXIS 
• B J0349 Injection, rezafungin, 1 mg
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: REZZAYO 
[!J J0350 Injection, anistreplase, 
per 30 units 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
[!J J0360 Injection, hydralazine HCI, 
up to 20 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HYDRALAZINE HCL 
K20ASC K 
KSASC E2 
N1 ASC N 
B J0364 Injection, apomorphine hydrochloride, 
1 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l:J J0365 Injection, aprotinin, 10,000 kiu 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
KS ASC E2 
J0285-J0490 
[!J J0380 Injection, metaraminol bitartrate, 
per 10 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
[!J J0390 Injection, chloroquine hydrochloride, 
up to 250 mg 
K2 ASC K
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
• B J0391 Injection, artesunate, 1 mg 
0 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
[!J J0395 Injection, arbutamine HCI, 1 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J0400 Injection, aripiprazole, intramuscular, 
0.25 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 01 
B J0401 Injection, aripiprazole, extended release, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K IIJllJ 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ABILIFY MAINTENA 
Coding Clinic: 2014, 01 
• B J0402 Injection, aripiprazole (abilify asimtufii), 
1 mg 
0 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
[!J J0456 Injection, azithromycin, 500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AZITHROMYCIN, ZITHROMAX 
• l!JI J0457 Injection, Aztreonam, 100 Mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: AZTREONAM 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
[!J J0461 Injection, atropine sulfate, 
0.01 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ATROPINE SULFATE 
N 
N1 ASC N 
[!J J0470 Injection, dimercaprol, per 100 mg K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: BAL IN OIL 
[!J J0475 Injection, baclofen, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BACLOFEN, GABLOFEN, 
LIORESAL, LIORESAL REFILL KIT 
[!J J0476 Injection, baclofen, 50 mcg for 
intrathecal trial 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BACLOFEN, GABLOFEN, 
LIORESAL 
[!J J0480 Injection, basiliximab, 20 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SIMULECT 
B J0485 Injection, belatacept, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NULOJIX 
B J0490 Injection, belimumab, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BENLYSTA 
K2 ASC K 
K2 ASC K 
K2 ASC K 
r:I' Male only 
ì Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 • Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A- Y = APC Status indicator
IIJll) MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
301 
J0491-J0592 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
302 
B J0491 Injection, anifrolumab-fnia, 
1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SAPHNELO 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
l!J J0500 Injection, dicyclomine HCI, 
up to 20 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K2OASC G 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: BENTYL, DICYCLOMINE HCI, 
DICYCLOMINE HCL 
l!J J0515 Injection, benztropine mesylate, 
per 1 mg 
N 1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BENZTROPINE, COGENTIN 
B J0517 Injection, benralizumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FASENRA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
K2 ASC K 
l!J J0520 Injection, bethanechol chloride, myotonachol 
or urecholine, up to 5 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J0558 Injection, penicillin G benzathine 
and penicillin G procaine, 
100,000 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: BICILLIN C-R, BICILLIN CR 
PEDIATRIC 
Coding Cllnlc: 2011, 01 
l!J J0561 Injection, penicillin G benzathine, 
100,000 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BICILLIN L-A 
Coding Cllnlc: 2011, Q1 
B J0565 Injection, bezlotoxumab, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZINPLAVA 
B J0567 Injection, cerliponase alfa, 
1Ú 
oc 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Cllnlc: 2019, Q1 
B J0570 Buprenorphine implant, 74.2 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PROBUPHINE SYSTEM KIT 
Coding Cllnlc: 2011, Q1; 2017, Q1 
l!J J0571 Buprenorphine, oral, 1 mg 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Cllnlc: 2014, Q4; 2016, Q1 
l!J J0572 Buprenorphine/naloxone, oral, less than 
or equal to 3 mg buprenorphine 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Cllnlc: 2014, 04; 2016, Q1 
l!J J0573 Buprenorphine/naloxone, oral, greater 
than 3 mg, but less than or equal to 6 mg 
buprenorphine 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4; 2016, Q1 
l!J J0574 Buprenorphine/naloxone, oral, greater 
than 6 mg, but less than or equal to 10 mg 
buprenorphine 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4; 2016, Q1 
l!J J0575 Buprenorphine/naloxone, oral, greater than 
10 mg buprenorphine 
E1 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4; 2016, Q1 
• B J0576 Injection, buprenorphine extended-release
(brixadi}, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J0583 Injection, bivalirudin, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ANGIOMAX, BIVALIRUDIN, 
BIVALIRUDIN RTU 
B J0584 Injection, burosumab-twza 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CRYSVITA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
l!J J0585 Injection, onabotulinumtoxinA, 
1 unit 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BOTOX, BOTOX COSMETIC 
Coding Cllnlc: 2021, 02 
B J0586 Injection, abobotulinumtoxinA, 
5 Units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DYSPORT 
l!J J0587 Injection, rimabotulinumtoxinB, 
100 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MYOBLOC 
Coding Cllnlc: 2002, 02; 2002, 01 
B J0588 Injection, incobotulinumtoxinA, 
1 unit 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: XEOMIN 
B J0591 Injection, deoxycholic acid, 1 mg 
o E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Cllnlc: 2020, Q2 
l!J J0592 Injection, buprenorphine hydrochloride, 
0.1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BUPRENEX, BUPRENORPHINE 
HCL, BUPRENORPHINE HCL INJECTION 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J0S93 Injection, lanadelumab-flyo, 1 mg (code 
may be used for Medicare when drug 
administered under direct supervision 
of a physician, not for use when drug is 
self-administered) 
KS O ASC E2 
BETO$: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B J0S94 Injection, Busulfan, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs: BUSULFAN 
B J0S9S Injection, butorphanol tartrate, 
_1 mg 
N1 ASCN 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: BUTORPHANOL TARTRATE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
B J0S96 Injection, C1 esterase inhibitor 
(recombinant), ruconest, 10 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: RUCONEST 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B J0S97 Injection, C-1 esterase inhibitor (human), 
Berinert, 1 O units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: BERINERT 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
B J0S98 Injection, C-1 esterase inhibitor (human), 
Cinryze, 10 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CINRYZE 
B J0S99 Injection, c-1 esterase inhibitor (human), 
(HAEGARDA®), 10 units 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
liJ J0G00 Injection, edetate calcium disodium, 
up to 1000 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
liJ J0604 Cinacalcet, oral, 1 mg, (for ESRD on 
dialysis) 
B 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1 
liJ J0606 Injection, etelcalcetide, 0.1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
• m Jos12
• m Jos13
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1; 2018, Q2 
Injection, calcium gluconate (fresenius kabi), 
per 10 mg 
N 1 0 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CALCIUM GLUCONATE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
Injection, calcium gluconate (wg critical 
care), per 10 mg 
N1 O ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CALCIUM GLUCONATE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
l!J J0620 Injection, calcium glycerophosphate and 
calcium lactate, per 10 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
J0593-J0690 
I!) J0630 Injection, calcitonin salmon, 
up to 400 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CALCITONIN SALMON, MIACALCIN 
I!) J0636 Injection, calcitriol, 0.1 mcg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
B J0637 Injection, caspofungin acetate, 
N1 ASC N 
5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CANCIDAS, CASPOFUNGIN. 
CASPOFUNGIN ACETATE 
B J0638 Injection, canakinumab, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ILARIS 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2011, Q4 
liJ J0640 Injection, leucovorin calcium, 
per 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: LEUCOVORIN CALCIUM 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q1 
liJ J0641 Injection, levoleucovorin, 
not otherwise specified, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: LEVOLEUCOVORIN CALCIUM 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q1; 2008, Q4; 2019, Q4 
B J0642 Injection, levoleucovorin (khapzory), 
0.5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: KHAPZORY 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4; 2020, Q1 
• B J066S Injection, Bupivicaine,
Not Otherwise Specified, 0.5 Mg 
N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: BUPIVACAINE HCL, MARCAINE, 
MARCAINE SPINAL, SENSORCAINE, 
SENSORCAINE-MPF 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
I!) J0670 Injection, mepivacaine hydrochloride, 
per 10 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: POLOCAINE, POLOCAINE-MPF 
• l!J J0688 Injection, cefazolin sodium (hikma), not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0690, 
500 mg 
0 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
I!) J0689 Injection, cefazolin sodium (baxter), 
not therapeutically equivalent to J0690, 
500 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CEFAZOLIN SODIUM 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
liJ J0690 Injection, cefazolin sodium, 
500 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: CEFAZOLIN, CEFAZOLIN SODIUM, 
CEFAZOLIN SODIUM IN DEXTROSE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
cl' Male only 
< Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
tllill1 MIPScode
ASC - ASC Approved Procedure 
EID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
303 
J0691-J0737 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
304 
B J0691 Injection, lefamulin, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
N1 OASC N 
B J0692 Injection, cefepime hydrochloride, 
500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CEFEPIME, CEFEPIME HCL, 
CEFEPIME HYDROCHLORIDE, MAXIPIME 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
B J0694 Injection, cefoxitin sodium, 1 gm 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CEFOXITIN SODIUM 
B J0695 Injection, ceftolozane 50 mg and 
tazobactam 25 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZERBAXA 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B J0696 Injection, ceftriaxone sodium, 
per 250 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CEFTRIAXONE, CEFTRIAXONE IN 
D5W, CEFTRIAXONE SODIUM 
B J0697 Injection, sterile cefuroxime sodium, 
per 750 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CEFUROXIME SODIUM, ZINACEF 
B J0698 Injection, cefotaxime sodium, 
per gm 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
B J0699 Injection, cefiderocol, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FETROJA 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
N1 ASC N 
K2OASC G 
B J0701 Injection, cefepime hydrochloride (baxter), 
not therapeutically equivalent to maxipime, 
500 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CEFEPIME HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J0702 Injection, betamethasone acetate 3 mg 
and betamethasone sodium phosphate 
3 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BETAMETHASONE SODIUM 
PHOSPHATE AND BETAMETHASONE 
ACETATE, CELESTONE SOLUSPAN 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q4 
B J0703 Injection, cefepime hydrochloride (b braun), 
not therapeutically equivalent to maxipime, 
500 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CEFEPIME HCL IN DEXTROSE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J0706 Injection, Caffeine Citrate, 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2; 2002, Q1 
B J0710 Injection, cephapirin sodium, 
up to 1 gm 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J0712 Injection, ceftaroline fosamil, 
10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TEFLARO 
K2 ASC K 
B J0713 Injection, ceftazidime, per 500 mg N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: CEFTAZIDIME, FORTAZ, FORTAZ 
(ADD-V), FORTAZ ADD-V), TAZICEF 
B J0714 Injection, ceftazidime and avibactam, 
0.5 g/0.125 g 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AVYCAZ 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B J0715 Injection, ceftizoxime sodium, 
per 500 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
B J0716 Injection, centruroides immune f(ab)2, 
up to 120 milligrams 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ANASCORP 
B J0717 Injection, certolizumab pegol, 1 mg 
(code may be used for Medicare when drug 
administered under the direct supervision 
of a physician, not for use when drug 
is self administered) 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CIMZIA 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
l!J J0720 Injection, chloramphenicol sodium 
succinate, up to 1 gm 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l!J J0725 Injection, chorionic gonadotropin, 
per 1,000 USP units 
N1 -9- 0 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN, 
NOVAREL 
l!J J0735 Injection, clonidine hydrochloride, 
1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CLONIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE, 
CLONIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
INJECTION, DURACLON 
• B J0736 Injection, Clindamycin Phosphate, 300 Mg 
N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CLEOCIN, CLINDAMYCIN 
PHOSPHATE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B J0737 Injection, Clindamycin Phosphate (Baxter),
Not Therapeutically Equivalent To J0736, 
300 Mg 
N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CLINDAMYCIN PHOSPHATE 
(BAXTER) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• Newcode
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
IJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
4 6J J0739 Injection, cabotegravir, 1 mg, fda approved 
prescription, only for use as hiv pre-exposure 
prophylaxis (not for use as treatment for 
hiv) 
0 E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Statute: 1861 (ddd) 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 03 
6J J0740 Injection, cidofovir, 375 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CIDOFOVIR 
K2 ASC K 
i;J J0741 Injection, cabotegravir and rilpivirine, 
2mg/3mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CABENUVA 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
i;J J0742 Injection, imipenem 4 mg, cilastatin 4 mg 
and relebactam 2 mg 
K2 O ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: RECARBRIO 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
liJ J0743 Injection, cilastatin sodium; imipenem, 
per 250 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: IMIPENEM AND CILASTATIN, 
IMIPENEM/CILASTATIN, PRIMAXIN IV 
i;J J0744 Injection, ciprofloxacin for intravenous 
infusion, 200 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CIPRO, CIPROFLOXACIN 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
liJ J0745 Injection, codeine phosphate, 
per 30 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K2 ASC K 
• 6J J0750 Emtricitabine 200mg and tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate 300mg, oral, fda 
approved prescription, only for use as hiv 
pre-exposure prophylaxis (not for use as 
treatment of hiv) 
o 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Statute: 1861 ( ddd) 
• EJ J0751 Emtricitabine 200mg and tenofovir 
alafenamide 25mg, oral, fda approved 
prescription, only for use as hiv 
pre-exposure prophylaxis (not for use as 
treatment of hiv) 
0 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Statute: 1861 ( ddd) 
EJ J0770 Injection, colistimethate sodium, 
up to 150 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: COLISTIMETHATE 150MG 1CT, 
COLISTIMETHATE SODIUM, COLY-MYCIN 
M PARENTERAL 
J0739-J0874 
i;J J0775 Injection, collagenase, clostridium 
histolyticum, 0.01 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: XIAFLEX (COLLAGENASE 
CLOSTRIDIUM HISTOLYTICUM) 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
EJ J0780 Injection, prochlorperazine, 
up to 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PROCHLORPERAZINE EDISYLATE 
i;J J0791 Injection, crizanlizumab-tmca, 
5 mg 
K2OASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ADAKVEO 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
6J J0795 Injection, corticorelin ovine triflutate, 
1 microgram 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
• 6J J0799 Fda approved prescription drug, only for use 
as hiv pre-exposure prophylaxis (not for use 
as treatment of hiv), not otherwise classified 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1861 (ddd) 
• i;J J0801 Injection, corticotropin (acthar gel),
up to 40 units 
K2 o ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: H.P. ACTHAR 
• i;J J0802 Injection, corticotropin (ani),
up to 40 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CORTROPHIN GEL, PURIFIED 
CORTROPHIN GEL 
i;J J0834 Injection, cosyntropin, 0.25 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CORTROSYN, COSYNTROPIN 
i;J J0840 Injection, crotalidae polyvalent immune 
FAB(Ovine), up to 1 gram 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CROFAB POWDER FOR 
SOLUTION 
B J0841 Injection, crotalidae immune f(ab')2 
(equine), 120 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ANAVIP 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
6J J0850 Injection, cytomegalovirus immune globulin 
intravenous (human), per vial 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CYTOGAM 
• B J0873 Injection, daptomycin (xellia) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0878, 1 mg O 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
• i;J J0874 Injection, daptomycin (baxter), not
therapeutically equivalent to J0878, 1 mg KS 
OASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
llJm MIPS code 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
llml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
305 
J0875-J0899 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
306 
B J0875 Injection, dalbavancin, 5mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DALVANCE 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B J0877 Injection, daptomycin (hospira), not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0878, 
1 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DAPTOMYCIN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J0878 Injection, daptomycin, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CUBICIN, DAPTOMYCIN 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2; 2023, Q1 
B J0879 Injection, difelikefalin, 0.1 microgram, 
(for ESRD on dialysis) 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: KORSUVA 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
m J0881 Injection, darbepoetin alfa, 1 microgram 
(non-ESRD use) 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARAN ESP 
m J0882 Injection, darbepoetin alfa, 1 microgram 
(for ESRD on dialysis) 
K2 ASC K
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: ARANESP 
m J0883 Injection, argatroban, 1 mg (for non-ESRD 
use) 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARGATROBAN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
m J0884 Injection, argatroban, 1 mg (for ESRD on 
dialysis) 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARGATROBAN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
m J0885 Injection, epoetin alfa, (for non-ESRD use}, 
1000 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: EPOGEN, PROCRIT 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q2; 2006, Q2 
m J0887 Injection, epoetin beta, 1 microgram, 
(for ESRD on dialysis) 
K2 ASC K
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: MIRCERA 
m J0888 Injection, epoetin beta, 1 microgram, 
(for Non ESRD use) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: MIRCERA 
• B J0889 Daprodustat, oral, 1 mg, (for ESRD on
dialysis) 
K5 0 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
B J0890 Injection, peginesatide, 0.1 mg (for ESRD 
on dialysis) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
m J0891 Injection, argatroban (accord}, not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0883, 1 mg 
(for non-ESRD use) 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARGATROBAN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
m J0892 Injection, argatroban (accord), not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0884, 1 mg 
(for ESRD on dialysis) 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARGATROBAN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J0893 Injection, decitabine (sun pharma) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0894, 
1 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DECITABINE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J0894 Injection, decitabine, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DACOGEN, DECITABINE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
m J0895 Injection, deferoxamine mesylate, 
500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEFEROXAMINE MESYLATE, 
DESFERAL 
B J0896 Injection, luspatercept-aamt, 
0.25 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: REBLOZYL 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
K20ASC K 
B J0897 Injection, denosumab, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PROLIA, XGEVA 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q1; 2016, Q1 
m J0898 Injection, argatroban (auromedics), not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0883, 
1 mg (for non-esrd use) 
K2 o ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ARGATROBAN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
m J0899 Injection, argatroban (auromedics), not 
therapeutically equivalent to J0884, 
1 mg (for ESRD on dialysis) 
K2 O ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARGATROBAN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
Ii Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
l!!i] Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
l!J J0945 Injection, brompheniramine maleate, 
per 1 0 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l!J J1000 Injection, depo-estradiol cypionate, 
up to 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEPO-ESTRADIOL 
l!J J1020 Injection, methylprednisolone acetate, 
20 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEPO-MEDROL, 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE ACETATE USP 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03; 2009, 02; 2018, 
Q4; 2019, Q3 
l!J J1030 Injection, methylprednisolone acetate, 
40 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEPO-MEDROL, 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE ACETATE, 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE ACETATE USP 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3; 2009, Q2; 2018, 
04; 2019, Q3; 2022, 04 
l!J J1040 Injection, methylprednisolone acetate, 
80 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEPO-MEDROL, 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE ACETAT, 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE ACETATE 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2; 2018, 04 
Ii J1050 Injection, medroxyprogesterone acetate, 
1 mg 
N1 lf ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l!J J1071 Injection, testosterone cypionate, 
1 mg 
N 1 d" ASC N
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEPO-TESTOSTERONE, 
TESTOSTERONE CYPIONATE 
l!J J1094 Injection, dexamethasone acetate, 
1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J1095 Injection, dexamethasone 9 percent, 
intraocular, 1 microgram 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
Ii J1096 Dexamethasone, lacrimal ophthalmic insert, 
0.1 mg 
K2 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEXTENZA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
Ii J1097 phenylephrine 10.16 mg/ml and ketorolac 
2.88 mg/ml ophthalmic irrigation solution, 
1 ml 
K2 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: OMIDRIA (PHENYLEPHRINE 1% + 
KETOROLAC 0.3% IRRIGATION) 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
J0945-J1201 
l!J J1100 Injection, dexamethasone sodium 
phosphate, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEXAMETHASONE SODIUM 
PHOSPHATE 
• 0 J1105 Dexmedetomidine, oral, 1 mcg
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J1110 Injection, dihydroergotamine mesylate, 
per 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: D.H.E. 45, DIHYDROERGOTAMINE 
MESYLATE 
l!J J1120 Injection, acetazolamide sodium, 
up to 500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ACETAZOLAMIDE, 
ACETAZOLAMIDE SODIUM 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
Ii J1130 Injection, diclofenac sodium, 
0.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2017, Q1 
l!J J1160 Injection, digoxin, up to 0.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: DIGOXIN, LANOXIN 
N1 OASC N 
N1 ASC N 
l!J J1162 Injection, digoxin immune FAB(Ovine), 
per vial 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DIGIFAB 
l!J J1165 Injection, phenytoin sodium, 
per 50 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PHENYTOIN SODIUM 
l!J J1170 Injection, hydromorphone, 
N1 ASC N 
up to 4 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DILAUDID, HYDROMORPHONE, 
HYDROMORPHONE HCL, 
HYDROMORPHONE HYDROCHLORIDE 
l!J J1180 Injection, dyphylline, 
up to 500 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K5ASC E2 
l!J J1190 Injection, dexrazoxane hydrochloride, 
per 250 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEXRAZOXANE 
l!J J1200 Injection, diphenhydramine HCI, 
up to 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BENADRYL, DIPHENHYDRAMINE 
HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
Ii J1201 Injection, cetirizine hydrochloride, 
0.5 mg 
K20ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: QUZYTTIR 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
d" Male only 
lf Female only 
fl Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
tiil MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
307 
J1205-J1380 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J12os Injection, chlorothiazide sodium, 
B J1301 Injection, edaravone, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
per 500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: RADICAVA 
Drugs: CHLOROTHIAZIDE SODIUM, 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
DIURIL IV 
B J1302 Injection, sutimlimab-jome, 
B J1212 Injection, DMSO, dimethyl sulfoxide, 
10 mg 
K2OASC G 
50%, 50 ml 
K2ASC K 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ENJAYMO 
Drugs: RIMSO-50 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q4 
B J1230 Injection, methadone HCI, 
B J1303 Injection, ravulizumab-cwvz, 
up to 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
10 mg 
K2OASC K 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: METHADONE HCL 
Drugs: ULTOMIRIS 
B J1240 Injection, dimenhydrinate, 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
up to 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
• B J1304 Injection, tofersen, 1 mg
0 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DIMENHYDRINATE 
B J13os Injection, evinacumab-dgnb, 
B J124s Injection, dipyridamole, 
5mg 
K2OASC G 
per 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: EVKEEZA 
Drugs: DIPYRIDAMOLE 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
• B J124s Injection, dinutuximab, 0.1 mg 
0 
B J13os Injection, inclisiran, 1 mg 
K20ASC G 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
B J12so Injection, Dobutamine hydrochloride, 
Drugs: LEQVIO 
per 250 mg 
N1 ASC N 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q3 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
B J1320 Injection, amitriptyline HCI, 
Drugs: DOBUMATINE HCL, DOBUTAMINE 
up to 20 mg 
N1 ASC N 
HCL 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
B J12so Injection, dolasetron mesylate, 
B J1322 Injection, elosulfase alfa, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: VIMIZIM 
B J12ss Injection, dopamine HCI, 40 mg 
N1 ASC N 
B J1324 Injection, enfuvirtide, 1 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DOPAMINE, DOPAMINE 
200MG/5ML, DOPAMINE HCL 400MGIN 5% 
B J132s Injection, epoprostenol, 0.5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
DEXTROSE LIFECARE 250ML, DOPAMINE 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
HCL 800MGIN 5% DEXTROSE LIFECARE 
250ML, DOPAMINE IN D5W 
Drugs: EPOPROSTENOL, 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
EPOPROSTENOL (VELETRI), FLOLAN 
B J12s1 Injection, doripenem, 10 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
B J1321 Injection, eptifibatide, 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B J1330 Injection, ergonovine maleate, 
B J1210 Injection, doxercalciferol, 1 mcg 
up to 0.2 mg 
K5 l?ASC E2 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DOXERCALCIFEROL, HECTOROL 
B J133s Injection, ertapenem sodium, 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
B J1290 Injection, ecallantide, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ERTAPENEM, INVANZ 
Drugs: KALBITOR® 
B J1364 Injection, erythromycin lactobionate, 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
per 500 mg 
K2 ASC K 
B J13oo Injection, eculizumab, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ERYTHROMYCIN, 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
ERYTHROMYCIN LACTOBIONATE 
Drugs: SOURIS 
B J13so Injection, estradiol valerate, 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
up to 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
• Newcode 
• Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
B Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
Ill Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
308 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
Drugs: DELESTROGEN, ESTRADIOL 
VALERATE 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
8 J1410 Injection, estrogen conjugated, 
per 25 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PREMARIN 
K2 ASC K 
• B J1411 Injection, etranacogene dezaparvovec-drlb,
per therapeutic dose 
O G 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HEMGENIX 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• B J1412 Injection, valoctocogene roxaparvovec-rvox,
per ml, containing nominal 2 x 1013 vector 
genomes 
o 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
• B J1413 Injection, delandistrogene moxeparvovec-
rokl, per therapeutic dose 
O 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J1426 Injection, casimersen, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AMONDYS 45 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04 
B J1427 Injection, viltolarsen, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VILTEPSO 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01 
B J1428 Injection, eteplirsen, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J1429 Injection, golodirsen, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VYONDYS 53 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
B J1430 Injection, ethanolamine oleate, 
100 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K2 ASC G 
K2 ASC G 
K5ASC E2 
K2OASC K 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs: ETHANOLAMINE OLEATE 
B J1435 Injection, estrone, per 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K5iASC E2 
B J1436 Injection, etidronate disodium, 
per 300 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
E1 
B J1437 Injection, ferric derisomaltose, 
10 mg 
K2ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MONOFERRIC 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 04 
B J1438 Injection, etanercept, 25 mg (code 
may be used for Medicare when drug 
administered under the direct supervision 
of a physician, not for use when drug 
is self administered) 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ENBREL, ENBREL (ETANERCEPT) 
J1410-J1453 
B J1439 Injection, ferric carboxymaltose, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: INJECTAFER 
• B J1440 Fecal microbiota, live - jslm, 1 ml 
K2 ASC G
BETOS: T2D 
Other tests - other 
Price established by carriers 
Drugs: REBYOTA 
Coding Clinic: 2014, 01; 2023, 03 
B J1442 Injection, filgrastim (G-CSF), excludes 
biosimilars, 1 microgram 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NEUPOGEN 
Coding Clinic: 2014, 01 
B J1443 Injection, ferric pyrophosphate citrate 
solution (triferic), 0.1 mg of iron 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B J1444 Injection, ferric pyrophosphate citrate 
powder, 0.1 mg of iron 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
B J1445 Injection, ferric pyrophosphate citrate 
solution (triferic avnu), 0.1 mg of 
iron 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
8 J1447 Injection, tbo-filgrastim, 
1 microgram 
BETOS: Q 1 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GRANIX 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B J1448 Injection, trilaciclib, 1mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: COSELA 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04 
• B J1449 Injection, eflapegrastim-xnst, 
0.1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ROLVEDON 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
K5ASC E2 
K2 ASC K 
K2ASC G 
K20ASC G 
B J1450 Injection fluconazole, 200 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FLUCONAZOLE IN SODIUM 
CHLORIDE 
B J1451 Injection, fomepizole, 15 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: FOMEPIZOLE 
K2 ASC K 
B J1452 Injection, fomivirsen sodium, intraocular, 
1.65 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J1453 Injection, fosaprepitant, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: EMEND FOR INJECTION 
150MG, FOSAPREPITANT 150 MG, 
FOSAPREPITANT FOR INJECTION 150 MG 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2023, 01 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
llLlll Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
Ll!m MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
309 
Jl 454 - Jl 570 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
310 
l!J J1454 Injection, fosnetupitant 235 mg and 
palonosetron 0.25 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: AKYNZEO (IV INJECTION) 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q4; 2019, Q1 
l!J J1455 Injection, foscarnet sodium, 
per 1000 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FOSCARNET SODIUM 
Ii J1456 Injection, fosaprepitant (teva), not 
therapeutically equivalent to J1453, 
1 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FOSAPREPITANT FOR INJECTION 
150 MG 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
Ii J1457 Injection, gallium nitrate, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
Ii J1458 Injection, galsulfase, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: NAGLAZYME 
K5ASC E2 
N1 ASC N 
Ii J1459 Injection, immune globulin (Privigen), 
intravenous, non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 
500 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PRIVIGEN 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
l!J J1460 Injection, gamma globulin, intramuscular, 
1 cc 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GAMASTAN 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
Ii J1551 Injection, immune globulin (cutaquig), 
100 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CUTAQUIG 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q3 
Ii J1554 Injection, immune globulin (asceniv), 
500 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ASCENIV 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
Ii J1555 Injection, immune globulin (cuvitru), 
100 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: CUVITRU 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1 
Ii J1556 Injection, immune globulin (bivigam), 
500 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: BIVIGAM 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q4 
Ii J1557 Injection, immune globulin, (Gammaplex), 
intravenous, non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 
500 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GAMMAPLEX 
Ii J1558 Injection, immune globulin (xembify), 
100 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: XEMBIFY 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
Ii J1559 Injection, immune globulin (Hizentra), 
100 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HIZENTRA 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
l!J J1560 Injection, gamma globulin, intramuscular, 
over 10 cc 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: GAMASTAN 
l!J J1561 Injection, immune globulin, (Gamunex-C/ 
Gammaked), non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 
500 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GAMMAKED, GAMUNEX-C 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2; 2007, 04; 2008, 
Q1;2012,Q1 
Ii J1562 Injection, immune globulin (Vivaglobin), 
100 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l!J J1566 Injection, immune globulin, intravenous, 
lyophilized (e.g., powder), not otherwise 
specified, 500 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GAMMAGARD S/D 
Coding Clinic: 2006, 01 
Ii J1568 Injection, immune globulin, (Octagam), 
intravenous, non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 
500 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: OCTAGAM 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2008, 01 
l!J J1569 Injection, immune globulin, (Gammagard 
liquid), non-lyophilized, (e.g., liquid), 
500 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GAMMAGARD LIQUID 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 04; 2008, 01 
l!J J1570 Injection, ganciclovir sodium, 
500 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: CYTOVENE, GANCICLOVIR 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
• New code
.It. Revised code 
Bi Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!J Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
EJ J1571 Injection, hepatitis B immune globulin 
(HepaGam B), intramuscular, 
0.5 ml 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HEPAGAM B 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2008, Q1; 2008, 
Q3 
EJ J1572 Injection, immune globulin, (Flebogamma/ 
Flebogamma Dif), intravenous, non-
lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 500 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: FLEBOGAMMA 10% DIF, 
FLEBOGAMMA DIF 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2008, Q1 
B J1573 Injection, hepatitis B immune globulin 
(HepaGam 8), intravenous, 
0.5 ml 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HEPAGAM B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1; 2008, Q3 
Intravenous (IV) access 
EJ J1574 Injection, ganciclovir sodium (exela) 
not therapeutically equivalent to J1570, 
	Omg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J1575 Injection, immune 
globulin/hyaluronidase, (HYQVIA), 
100 mg immuneglobulin 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HYQVIA 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
• EJ J1576 Injection, immune globulin (panzyga),
intravenous, non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 
500 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PANZYGA 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
EJ J1580 Injection, garamycin, gentamicin, 
up to 80 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: GENTAMICIN, GENTAMICIN 
SULFATE 
J1571 -J1630 
EJ J1595 Injection, glatiramer acetate, 
20 mg 
K2 ASC K
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: COPAXONE 
• B J1596 Injection, glycopyrrolate, 0.1 mg
o 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
B J1599 Injection, immune globulin, intravenous, 
non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), not otherwise 
specified, 500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
EJ J1600 Injection, gold sodium thiomalate, 
up to 50 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
B J1602 Injection, golimumab, 1 mg, for intravenous 
use 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SIMPON! ARIA 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
EJ J1610 Injection, glucagon hydrochloride, 
per 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: GLUCAGEN DIAGNOSTIC 
KIT, GLUCAGEN(R), GLUCAGON, 
GLUCAGON EMERGENCY, GLUCAGON 
HYDROCHLORIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
EJ J1611 Injection, glucagon hydrochloride (fresenius 
kabi), not therapeutically equivalent to 
J1610, per 1 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: GLUCAGEN DIAGNOSTIC KIT, 
GLUCAGON, GLUCAGON EMERGENCY, 
GLUCAGON HYDROCHLORIDE, 
GLUCAGON HYDROCHLORIDE KIT 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
EJ J1620 Injection, gonadorelin hydrochloride, 
per 1 00 mcg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
EJ J1626 Injection, granisetron hydrochloride, 
100 mcg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: GRANISETRON HCL 
B J1627 Injection, granisetron, extended-release, 
0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SUSTOL 
B J1628 Injection, guselkumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TREMFYA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
K2 ASC K 
EJ J1630 Injection, haloperidol, up to 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HALDOL, HALOPERIDOL LACTATE 
r/' Male on ly 
2 Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Eiml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Status indicator 
tm) MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
311 
J1631 - J1746 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
312 
m J1s31 Injection, haloperidol decanoate, 
per 50 mg 
N1 ASC N tm1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HALDOL DECANOATE, 
HALOPERIDOL DECANOATE 
B J1632 Injection, brexanolone, 1 mg 
N1 'f O ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZULRESSO 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4 
l!J J1640 Injection, hemin, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PANHEMATIN 
K2 ASC K 
l!J J1642 Injection, heparin sodium, (heparin lock 
flush), per 10 units 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HEPARIN (PORCINE) LOCK FLUSH 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
l!J J1643 Injection, heparin sodium (pfizer), not 
therapeutically equivalent to J1644, 
per 1000 units 
N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HEPARIN SODIUM (PORCINE) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
l!J J1644 Injection, heparin sodium, 
per 1000 units 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HEPARIN (PORCINE) IN 0.45% 
NACL, HEPARIN (PORCINE) IN D5W, 
HEPARIN (PORCINE) IN NACL, HEPARIN 
SODIUM, HEPARIN SODIUM (PORCINE), 
HEPARIN SODIUM IN NACL, HEPARIN 
SODIUM NACL, HEPARIN SODIUM/ 
SODIUM CHL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
l!J J1645 Injection, dalteparin sodium, 
per 25001U 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: FRAGMIN 
B J1650 Injection, enoxaparin sodium, 
10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: ENOXAPARIN SODIUM, 
ENOXAPARIN SODIUM NOVAPLUS, 
LOVENOX 
l!J J1652 Injection, fondaparinux sodium, 
0.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: ARIXTRA, FONDAPARINUX 
SODIUM 
B J1655 Injection, tinzaparin sodium, 
10001U 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
KS ASC E2 
l!J J1670 Injection, tetanus immune globulin, 
human, up to 250 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HYPERTET 
l!J J1675 Injection, histrelin acetate, 10 micrograms 
B 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l!J J1700 Injection, hydrocortisone acetate, 
up to 25 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l!J J1710 Injection, hydrocortisone sodium phosphate, 
up to 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J1720 Injection, hydrocortisone sodium succinate, 
up to 100 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SOLU-CORTEF, SOLU-CORTEF 
500MG 4ML 
B J1726 Injection, hydroxyprogesterone caproate, 
(makena), 10 mg 
K2 'f ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HYDROXYPROGESTERONE 
CAPROATE,MAKENA,MAKENA AUTO 
INJECTOR 
B J1729 Injection, hydroxyprogesterone 
caproate, not otherwise specified, 
10 mg 
K2 'f ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l!J J1730 Injection, diazoxide, 
up to 300 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
B J1738 Injection, meloxicam, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4 
B J1740 Injection, ibandronate sodium, 
1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K5 ASC E2 
N1 ASC N 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs: BONIVA, IBANDRONATE SODIUM 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q4 
B J1741 Injection, ibuprofen, 100 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
l!J J1742 Injection, ibutilide fumarate, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CORVERT, IBUTILIDE FUMARATE 
B J1743 Injection, idursulfase, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ELAPRASE 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
B J1744 Injection, icatibant, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ICATIBANT 
K2 ASC K 
K2 ASC K 
l!J J1745 Injection, infliximab, excludes biosimilar, 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: INFLIXIMAB, REMICADE 
B J1746 Injection, ibalizumab-uiyk, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: TROGARZO 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
• Newcode
D Not payable by Medicare 
& Revised code 
Iii Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
J 17 4 7 - J 1890 
• B J1747 Injection, spesolimab-sbzo,
1 mg 
K2OASC G 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: SPEVIGO 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
B J17so Injection, iron dextran, 50 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: INFED 
B J11ss Injection, iron sucrose, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: VENOFER 
m J11ss Injection, imiglucerase, 10 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: CEREZYME 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
m J1790 Injection, droperidol, up to 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
B J1soo Injection, propranolol HCI, 
up to 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
• B J180S Injection, Esmolol Hydrochloride, 10 Mg
N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: BREVIBLOC, BREVIBLOC IN NACL, 
ESMOLOL HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B J1806 Injection, Esmolol Hydrochloride (Wg Critical
Care) Not Therapeutically Equivalent To 
J1805, 10 Mg 
N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ESMOLOL HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
B J1810 Injection, droperidol and fentanyl Citrate, 
up to 2 ml ampule 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2 
• B J1811 Insulin (Fiasp) For Administration Through
DME (I.E., Insulin Pump) Per 50 Units 
ON 
BETOS: D1 G Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: FIASP 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• l:J J1812 Insulin (fiasp), per 5 units
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B J1813 Insulin (Lyumjev) For Administration
Through DME (I.E., Insulin Pump) 
Per 50 Units 
o N
BETOS: D1 G Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: LYUMJEV U-100 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B J1814 Insulin (lyumjev), per 5 units
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
ON 
B J181S Injection, insulin, per 5 units 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
B J1817 Insulin for administration through DME 
(i.e., insulin pump) per 50 units 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1 G Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: HUMALOG, HUMALOG KWIKPEN, 
HUMALOG TEMPO PEN, HUMULIN®, 
INSULIN ASPART, INSULIN LISPRO, 
INSULIN LISPRO JUNIOR KWIKPEN, 
INSULIN LISPRO KWIKPEN, NOVOLIN®, 
NOVOLOG, NOVOLOG FLEXPEN, 
NOVOLOG MIX 70/30, NOVOLOG PENFILL 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q4 
B J1823 Injection, inebilizumab-cdon, 
1 mg 
K2OASC G 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: UPLIZNA 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
B J1826 Injection, interferon beta-1a, 
30 mcg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q2; 2011, Q2; 2011, 
Q1; 2014, Q4 
l!J J1830 Injection interferon beta-1b, 0.25 mg 
(code may be used for Medicare when drug 
administered under the direct supervision 
of a physician, not for use when drug is self 
administered) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
B J1833 Injection, isavuconazonium, 1 mg K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
B J1s3s 
• B J1s3s
B J1s40 
B J1sso 
B J1sss 
B J1s90 
Drugs: CRESEMBA, CRESEMBA 
INJECTION 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
Injection, itraconazole, 50 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
Injection, Metronidazole, 10 Mg 
N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: METRONIDAZOLE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
Injection, kanamycin sulfate, 
up to 500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Injection, kanamycin sulfate, 
up to 75 mg 
KSASC E2 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Injection, ketorolac tromethamine, 
per 15 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE 
Injection, cephalothin sodium, 
up to 1 gram 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
d" Male only 
ff Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
tlm MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
lililII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
313 
J1920 - J2020 
• B J1920 Injection, Labetalol Hydrochloride, 5 Mg
N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LABETALOL HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
• B J1921 Injection, Labetalol Hydrochloride (Hikma)
Not Therapeutically Equivalent To J1920, 
5 Mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LABETALOL HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
B J1930 Injection, lanreotide, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SOMATULINE DEPOT 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
B J1931 Injection, laronidase, 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ALDURAZYME 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02; 2005, 01 
B J1932 Injection, lanreotide, (cipla), 
1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LANREOTIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
• 1!J J1939 Injection, bumetanide, 0.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J1940 Injection, furosemide, 
up to 20 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FUROSEMIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04 
K2OASC G 
N1 ASC N 
• B J1941 Injection, furosemide (furoscix), 20 mg 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
B J1943 Injection, aripiprazole lauroxil, 
(aristada initio), 1 mg 
K2 a ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARISTADA INITIO 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B J1944 Injection, aripiprazole lauroxil, (aristada), 
1 mg 
K20 ASC KlmJ 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARISTADA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B J1945 Injection, lepirudin, 50 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K5 ASC E2 
1!J J1950 Injection, leuprolide acetate (for depot 
suspension), per 3.75 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LUPRON DEPOT 3-MONTH, 
11.25MG, LUPRON DEPOT 3.75MG, 
LUPRON DEPOT-PED 3-MONTH, 30 MG, 
LUPRON DEPOT-PED 11.25MG, LUPRON 
DEPOT-PED 15MG, LUPRON DEPOT-PED 
3-MONTH, 11.25MG, LUPRON DEPOT-PED 
7.5MG 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q2
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J1951 Injection, leuprolide acetate for depot 
suspension (fensolvi), 0.25 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FENSOLVI 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03 
B J1952 Leuprolide injectable, camcevi, 
B J19s3 
• B J1954
1 mg 
K2 c?' ASC G 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CAMCEVI 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
Injection, levetiracetam, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LEVETIRACETAM, 
LEVETIRACETAM (KEPPRA) 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
N1 ASC N 
Injection, leuprolide acetate for depot 
suspension (cipla), 7.5 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: LEUPROLIDE ACETATE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01; 2023, 02 
1!J J1955 Injection, levocarnitine, per 1 gm 
B 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CARNITOR 
1!J J1956 Injection, levofloxacin, 250 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LEVOFLOXACIN 
l!J J1960 Injection, levorphanol tartrate, 
up to 2 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
• B J1961 Injection, lenacapavir, 1 mg 
K2 a ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SUNLENCA 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
1!J J1980 Injection, hyoscyamine sulfate, 
up to 0.25 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: LEVSIN 
1!J J1990 Injection, chlordiazepoxide HCI, 
up to 1 00 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
1!J J2001 Injection, lidocaine HCI for intravenous 
infusion, 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LIDOCAINE IN D5W 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
1!J J2010 Injection, lincomycin HCI, 
up to 300 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LINCOCIN, LINCOMYCIN 
B J2020 Injection, linezolid, 200 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LINEZOLID, ZYVOX 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2; 2002, 01; 2023 
Q1 
• Newcode 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
.A. Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
fi9 Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding CliniC-
314 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J2021 Injection, linezolid (hospira) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J2020, 
200 mg 
e N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LINEZOLID 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B J2060 Injection, lorazepam. 2 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ATIVAN, LORAZEPAM 
B J2062 Loxapine for inhalation, 1 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
B J2150 Injection, mannitol, 25% in 50 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MANNITOL 
B J2170 Injection, mecasermin, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J2175 Injection, meperidine hydrochloride, 
per 100 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEMEROL, MEPERIDINE HCL 
B J2180 Injection, meperidine and promethazine HCI, 
up to 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J2182 Injection, mepolizumab, 1 mg 
K2 e ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NUCALA 
B J2184 Injection, meropenem (b. braun) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J2185, 
100 mg 
e N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MEROPENEM 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B J2185 Injection, meropenem, 100 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MEROPENEM 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02; 2023, Q1 
B J2186 Injection, meropenem and vaborbactam, 
1Omg/10mg (20mg) 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VABOMERE (MEROPENEM­
VABORBACTAM) 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
B J2210 Injection, methylergonovine maleate, 
up to 0.2 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: METHYLERGONOVINE MALEATE 
B J2212 Injection, methylnaltrexone, 
0.1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
B J2247 Injection, micafungin sodium (par pharm) 
not therapeutically equivalent to J2248, 
1 mg 
e N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MICAFUNGIN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
J2021-J2280 
B J2248 Injection, micafungin sodium, 
1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MICAFUNGIN, MICAFUNGIN 
SODIUM, MICAFUNGIN SODIUM 
(MYCAMINE) 
Coding Clinic: 2006, 04; 2023, 01 
• (!1 J2249 Injection, remimazolam, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
B J2250 Injection, midazolam hydrochloride, 
0N 
per 1 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MIDAZOLAM HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
EJ J2251 Injection, midazolam hydrochloride 
(wg critical care) not therapeutically 
equivalent to J2250, per 1 mg 
e N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MIDAZOLAM HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
EJ J2260 Injection, milrinone lactate, 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MILRINONE IN DEXTROSE, 
MILRINONE LACTATE, MILRINONE 
LACTATE IN 5% DEXTROSE INJECTION 
B J2265 Injection, minocycline hydrochloride, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MINOCIN 
B J2270 Injection, morphine sulfate, 
up to 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: MORPHINE SULFATE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04; 2023, 01 
EJ J2272 Injection, morphine sulfate (fresenius kabi) 
not therapeutically equivalent to J2270, 
up to 10 mg 
e N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MORPHINE SULFATE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B J2274 Injection, morphine sulfate, preservative­
free for epidural or intrathecal use, 
10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DURAMORPH, INFUMORPH 200, 
INFUMORPH 500, MITIGO, MORPHINE 
SULFATE 
EJ J2278 Injection, ziconotide, 1 microgram K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PRIALT 
(!1 J2280 Injection, moxifloxacin, 100 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MOXIFLOXACIN HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02; 2023, Q1 
cl' Male only 
á Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment lndka'tor 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
m!a MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
315 
J2281-J2402 
B J22s1 
m J2300 
Injection, moxifloxacin (fresenius kabi) 
not therapeutically equivalent to J2280, 
100 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: MOXIFLOXACIN HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
Injection, nalbuphine hydrochloride, 
per 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: NALBUPHINE HCL 
• B J2305 Injection, Nitroglycerin, 5 Mg
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N 
Drugs: NITROGLYCERIN, 
NITROGLYCERIN IN D5W 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
I!] J2310 Injection, naloxone hydrochloride, 
per 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: NALOXONE HCL, NALOXONE 
HYDROCHLORIDE 
I!] J2311 Injection, naloxone hydrochloride (zimhi), 
B J231s 
m J2320 
B J2323 
m J232s 
1 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ZIMHI 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
Injection, naltrexone, depot form, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: VIVITROL 
Injection, nandrolone decanoate, 
up to 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
Injection, natalizumab, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: TYSABRI 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
Injection, nesiritide, 0.1 mg 
E1 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
l!1 J2326 Injection, nusinersen, 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SPINRAZA 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q1; 2021, Q1 
l!1 J2327 Injection, risankizumab-rzaa, 
intravenous, 1 mg 
K2 o ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SKYRIZI 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
• l!1 J2329 Injection, ublituximab-xiiy, 1mg 
K2 0 ASC G
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: BRIUMVI 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
l!1 J2350 Injection, ocrelizumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: OCREVUS 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J23s3 
a J2354 
Injection, octreotide, depot form for 
intramuscular injection, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SANDOSTATIN LAR DEPOT 
Injection, octreotide, non-depot form for 
subcutaneous or intravenous injection, 
25 mcg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: OCTREOTIDE ACETATE, 
SANDOSTATIN 
I!] J2355 Injection, oprelvekin, 5 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
l!1 J2356 Injection, tezepelumab-ekko, 1 mg 
K2 
OASCG 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TEZSPIRE 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q3 
l!1 J2357 Injection, omalizumab, 5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs: XOLAIR 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
l!1 J2358 Injection, olanzapine, long-acting, 
• a J23s9
m J236o 
• a J2311 
1 mg 
N1 ASC N 11m 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ZYPREXA RELPREVV 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
Injection, olanzapine, 0.5 mg 
N1 O ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: OLANZAPINE (IMMEDIATE 
RELEASE) 
Injection, orphenadrine citrate, 
up to 60 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ORPHENADRINE CITRATE 
INJECTION 
Injection, phenylephrine hydrochloride, 
20 micrograms 
O N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• l!1 J2372 Injection, Phenylephrine Hydrochloride
(Biorphen), 20 Micrograms 
N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: BIORPHEN 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
I!] J2401 Injection, chloroprocaine hydrochloride, 
per 1 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CHLOROPROCAINE HCL, 
NESACAINE, NESACAINE-MPF, 
NESCAINE, NESCAINE MPF 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
I!] J2402 Injection, chloroprocaine hydrochloride 
(clorotekal), per 1 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
• Newcode 
D Not payable by Medicare 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
li!J Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
316 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
• B J2403 Chloroprocaine hcl ophthalmic, 3% gel,
1 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: IHEEZO 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
• l!J J2404 Injection, nicardipine, 0.1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J2405 Injection, ondansetron hydrochloride, 
per 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ONDANSETRON HCL, ZOFRAN 
B J2406 Injection, oritavancin (kimyrsa), 
10 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: KIMYRSA 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
l!J J2407 Injection, oritavancin (orbactiv), 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ORBACTIV 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
l!J J2410 Injection, oxymorphone HCI, 
up to 1 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
B J2425 Injection, palifermin, 
50 micrograms 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
.&. [i J2426 Injection, paliperidone palmitate 
extended release (invega sustenna), 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K tit) 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: INVEGA SUSTENNA 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2023, Q3 
• [i J2427 Injection, paliperidone palmitate extended
release (invega hafyera, or invega trinza), 
1 mg 
K2 OASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: INVEGA HAFYERA, INVEGA 
TRINZA 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
l!J J2430 Injection, pamidronate disodium, 
m J244o 
m J24so 
m J2469 
per 30 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PAMIDRONATE DISODIUM 
Injection, papaverine HCI, 
up to 60 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Injection, oxytetracycline HCI, 
up to 50 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Injection, palonosetron HCI, 
25 mcg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ALOXI, PALONOSETRON, 
PALONOSETRON HCL INJECTION SINGLE 
VIAL 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2; 2005, Q1 
J2403-J2543 
l!J J2501 Injection, paricalcitol, 1 mcg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PARICALCITOL, ZEMPLAR 
[i J2S02 Injection, pasireotide long acting, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SIGNIFOR LAR 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
[i J2503 Injection, pegaptanib sodium, 
0.3 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J2504 Injection, pegademase bovine, 
25 IU 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
[i J2506 Injection, pegfilgrastim, excludes 
K5 ASC E2 
N1 ASC N 
biosimilar, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: NEULASTA, NEULASTA DELIVERY 
KIT 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q1 
[i J2507 Injection, pegloticase, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: KRYSTEXXA 
K2 ASC K 
• [i J2508 Injection, pegunigalsidase alfa-iwxj, 1 mg 
0
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J2510 Injection, penicillin G procaine, aqueous, 
up to 600,000 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PENICILLIN G PROCAINE 
l!J J2513 Injection, pentastarch, 10% solution, 
100 ml 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J2515 Injection, pentobarbital sodium, 
per 50 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
K2 ASC K
Drugs: NEMBUTAL, PENTOBARBITAL 
l!J J2540 Injection, penicillin G potassium, 
up to 600,000 units 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PENICILLIN G POT IN DEXTROSE, 
PENICILLIN G POTASSIUM, PFIZERPEN, 
PFIZERPEN-G 
l!J J2543 Injection, piperacillin sodium/tazobactam 
sodium, 1 gram/0.125 grams 
(1.125 grams) 
N1 ASCN 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PIPERACILLIN AND TAZOBACTAM, 
PIPERACILLIN SODIUM-TAZOBACTAM 
SODIUM, PIPERACILLIN SODIUM/ TAZO, 
PIPERACILLIN SODIUM/ TAZO (ADD­
VANTAGE), PIPERACILLIN SODIUM/ 
TAZOB, PIPERACILLIN SODIUM/ 
TAZOBACTAM SODIUM 
d" Male only 
-!? Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A• Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
lim) Paid under the DME fee schedule 
!mil MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
317 
J2545 - J2777 
I?] J2545 Pentamidine isethionate, inhalation 
solution, FDA-approved final product, 
non-compounded, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per 300 mg 
B 
BETOS: D 1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: NEBUPENT, PENTAMIDINE 
ISETHIONATE 
B J2547 Injection, peramivir, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: RAPIVAB 
K2 ASC K 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
I?] J2550 Injection, promethazine HCI, 
up to 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PHENERGAN, PROMETHAZINE, 
PROMETHAZINE HCL 
I?] J2560 Injection, phenobarbital sodium, 
up to 120 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PHENOBARBITAL SODIUM 
• B J2561 Injection, phenobarbital sodium (sezaby}, 
1 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
B J2562 Injection, plerixafor, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MOZOBIL (PLERIXAFOR) 
I?] J2590 Injection, oxytocin, 
up to 10 units 
N1 ¥ ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
I?] J2597 Injection, desmopressin acetate, 
per 1 mcg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DDAVP, DESMOPRESSIN ACETATE 
• B J2598 Injection, Vasopressin, 1 Unit 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: VASOPRESSIN, VASOSTRICT 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B J2599 Injection, Vasopressin (American Regent) 
Not Therapeutically Equivalent To J2598, 
m J2sso 
m J2s10 
m J2s1s 
1 Unit 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: VASOPRESSIN (AMERICAN 
REGENT) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
Injection, prednisolone acetate, 
up to 1 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Injection, tolazoline HCI, 
up to 25 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Injection, progesterone, 
per 50 mg 
N1 ¥ ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PROGESTERONE 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999} 
• I?] J2679 Injection, fluphenazine hcl, 1.25 mg
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
I?] J2680 Injection, fluphenazine decanoate, 
up to 25 mg 
N1 ASC N lillm 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FLUPHENAZINE DECANOATE 
I?] J2690 Injection, procainamide HCI, 
up to 1 gm 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PROCAINAMIDE HCL 
I?] J2700 Injection, oxacillin sodium, 
N1 ASC N 
up to 250 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BACTOCILL IN DEXTROSE, 
OXACILLIN, OXACILLIN SODIUM 
B J2704 Injection, propofol, 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DIPRIVAN, PROPOFOL 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
I?] J2710 Injection, neostigmine methylsulfate, 
up to 0.5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
I?] J2720 Injection, protamine sulfate, 
per 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PROTAMINE SULFATE 
B J2724 Injection, protein C concentrate, 
intravenous, human, 10 IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CEPROTIN 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 01 
I?] J2725 Injection, protirelin, per 250 mcg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J2730 Injection, pralidoxime chloride, 
up to 1 gm 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J2760 Injection, phentolamine mesylate, 
N1 ASC N 
up to 5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PHENTOLAMINE MESYLATE 
B J2765 Injection, metoclopramide HCI, 
up to 10 mg 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: METOCLOPRAMIDE HCL 
B J2770 Injection, quinupristin/dalfopristin, 
N1 ASC N
500 mg (150/350) 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SYNERCID 
B J2777 Injection, faricimab-svoa, 
0.1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VABYSMO 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
K2 OASC G 
• Newcode 
.._ Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment 
l]J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
318 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J2778 Injection, ranibizumab, 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: LUCENTIS, LUCENTIS PFS 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
B J2779 Injection, ranibizumab, via intravitreal 
implant (susvimo), 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SUSVIMO 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q3 
1!J J2780 Injection, ranitidine hydrochloride, 
25 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B J2781 Injection, pegcetacoplan, intravitreal, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SYFOVRE 
B J2783 Injection, rasburicase, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ELITEK 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q2; 2005, Q2 
B J2785 Injection, regadenoson, 0.1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: LEXICAN, REGADENOSON 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B J2786 Injection, reslizumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CINQAIR 
K2OASC K 
B J2787 Riboflavin 5'-phosphate, ophthalmic solution, 
up to 3 ml 
N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
1!J J2788 Injection, Rho D immune globulin, 
human, minidose, 50 micrograms 
(250 IU) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HYPERRHO S/D, MICRHOGAM, 
MICRHOGAM UF PLUS 
1!J J2790 Injection, Rho D immune globulin, human, 
full dose, 300 micrograms 
(1500 IU) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HYPERRHO SID, RHOGAM ULTRA­
FILTERED PLUS 
1!J J2791 Injection, Rho D immune globulin (human), 
(Rhophylac), intramuscular or intravenous, 
100 IU 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: RHOPHYLAC 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q4; 2008, 01 
1!J J2792 Injection, Rho D immune globulin, 
intravenous, human, solvent detergent, 
100 IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: WINRHO SDF 
J2778 - J2860 
l!J J2793 Injection, rilonacept, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
K5ASC E2 
B J2794 Injection, risperidone (risperdal consta), 
0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K tllm 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: RISPERDAL CONSTA 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02; 2005, Q1 
B J2795 Injection, ropivacaine hydrochloride, 
1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: NAROPIN, ROPIVACAINE, 
ROPIVACAINE HCL 
B J2796 Injection, romiplostim, 
1 O micrograms 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: NPLATE 
K2 ASC K 
1!J J2797 Injection, rolapitant, 0.5 mg 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
B J2798 Injection, risperidone, (perseris), 
0.5 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PERSERIS 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
• B J2799 Injection, risperidone (uzedy), 1 mg 
O 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l!J J2800 Injection, methocarbamol, 
up to 10 ml 
N1 ASCN 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: METHOCARBAMOL, ROBAXIN 
B J2805 Injection, sincalide, 5 micrograms N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SINCALIDE, SINCALIDE INJ 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04; 2023, Q3 
• B J2806 Injection, sincalide (maia) not therapeutically
equivalent to J2805, 5 micrograms 
O N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
1!J J2810 Injection, theophylline, per 40 mg N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
1!J J2820 Injection, sargramostim (GM-CSF), 
50 mcg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: LEUKINE (LYO PWD) 
B J2840 Injection, sebelipase alfa, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: KANUMA 
K2 ASC K 
1!J J2850 Injection, secretin, synthetic, human, 
1 microgram 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CHIRHOSTIM 
B J2860 Injection, siltuximab, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SYLVANT 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
K2 ASC K 
<I' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
llllilJI Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
tllm MI PS code
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
319 
J2910-J3121 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
320 
B J2910 Injection, aurothioglucose, 
up to 50 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K5 ASC E2 
B J2916 Injection, sodium ferric gluconate complex 
in sucrose injection, 12.5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FERRLECIT, SODIUM FERRIC 
GLUCONATE 
B J2920 Injection, methylprednisolone sodium 
succinate, up to 40 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: METHYLPREDNISOLONE SODIUM 
SUCC, SOLU-MEDROL 
nJ J2930 Injection, methylprednisolone sodium 
succinate, up to 125 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: METHYLPREDNISOLONE SODIUM 
SUCC, SOLU-MEDROL 
nJ J2940 Injection, somatrem, 1 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1861s2b 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02; 2002, 01 
nJ J2941 Injection, somatropin, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1861s2b 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02; 2002, 01 
B J2950 Injection, promazine HCI, 
up to 25 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
nJ J2993 Injection, reteplase, 18.1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: RETAVASE KIT 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03 
nJ J2995 Injection, streptokinase, 
per 250,000 IU 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03 
nJ J2997 Injection, alteplase recombinant, 
N1 ASC N 
K2 ASC K 
K5 ASC E2 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ACTIVASE, CATHFLO ACTIVASE 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03 
ml J2998 Injection, plasminogen, human-tvmh, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: RYPLAZIM 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 03 
nJ J3000 Injection, streptomycin, up to 1 gm N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: STREPTOMYCIN SULFATE 
nJ J3010 Injection, fentanyl Citrate, 0.1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FENTANYL CITRATE, FENTANYL 
CITRATE/PF 50 MCG/ML VIAL (ML), 
SUBLIMAZE 
nJ J3030 Injection, sumatriptan succinate, 6 mg 
(code may be used for Medicare when drug 
administered under the direct supervision 
of a physician, not for use when drug is 
self administered) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
ml J3031 Injection, fremanezumab-vfrm, 1 mg 
(code may be used for Medicare when drug 
administered under the direct supervision 
of a physician, not for use when drug is 
self-administered) 
K2 O ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AJOVY 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
ml J3032 Injection, eptinezumab-jjmr, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VYEPTI 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 04 
ml J3060 Injection, taliglucerase alfa, 
10 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ELELYSO 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
nJ J3070 Injection, pentazocine, 30 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
ml J3090 Injection, tedizolid phosphate, 
1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SIVEXTRO 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
ml J3095 Injection, telavancin, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VIBATIV 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
N1 ASC N 
K2 ASC K 
K2 ASC K 
ml J3101 Injection, tenecteplase, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: TNKASE 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04; 2020, 03; 2021 
03 
nJ J3105 Injection, terbutaline sulfate, 
up to 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: TERBUTALINE, TERBUTALINE 
SULFATE 
nJ J3110 Injection, teriparatide, 10 mcg 
B 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
ml J3111 Injection, romosozumab-aqqg, 
1 mg 
K2 ¡ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: EVENITY 
nJ J3121 Injection, testosterone enanthate, 
1 mg 
N 1 d" ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: TESTOSTERONE ENANTHATE 
• New code 
.A. Revised code 
ml Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
m No 
d b M d. 
r.l 
IMII 
n-covere 
y e 1care 
1 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
1!J J3145 Injection, testosterone undecanoate, 
1 mg 
K2 d' ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: AVEED 
El J3230 Injection, chlorpromazine HCI, 
up to 50 mg 
N1ASCN 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CHLORPROMAZINE HCL 
El J3240 Injection, thyrotropin alpha, 0.9 mg, 
provided in 1.1 mg vial 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: THYROGEN 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04; 2005, 02 
Ii J3241 Injection, teprotumumab-trbw, 
10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TEPEZZA 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 04 
K2 ASC K 
Ii J3243 Injection, tigecycline, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TIGECY CLINE 
Coding Clinic: 2006, 04; 2023, 01 
Ii J3244 Injection, tigecycline (accord) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J3243, 
1T 
0N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
Ii J3245 Injection, tildrakizumab, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ILUMYA 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 01 
Ii J3246 Injection, tirofiban HCI, 0.25mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: AGGRASTAT 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 01 
El J3250 Injection, trimethobenzamide HCI, 
up to 200 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TIGAN 
El J3260 Injection, tobramycin sulfate, 
up to 80 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TOBRAMY CIN SULFATE 
Ii J3262 Injection, tocilizumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ACTEMRA 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
El J3265 Injection, torsemide, 10 mg/ml 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
K2 ASC K 
KS ASC E2 
El J3280 Injection, thiethylperazine maleate, 
up to 1 0 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
J3145 - J3355 
Ii J3285 Injection, treprostinil, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: REMODULIN, TREPROSTINIL 
INJECTION 
Ii J3299 Injection, triamcinolone acetonide (xipere), 
1 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: XIPERE 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 03 
El J3300 Injection, triamcinolone acetonide, 
preservative free, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 01; 2008, 04 
El J3301 Injection, triamcinolone acetonide, 
not otherwise specified, 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: KENALOG, KENALOG-10, 
KENALOG-40, KENALOG-80, 
TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 03; 2018, 04 
El J3302 Injection, triamcinolone diacetate, 
per 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
El J3303 Injection, triamcinolone hexacetonide, 
per 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
El J3304 Injection, triamcinolone acetonide, 
preservative-free, extended-release, 
microsphere formulation, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ZILRET TA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
1!J J3305 Injection, trimetrexate glucuronate, 
per 25 mg 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
1!J J3310 Injection, perphenazine, 
up to 5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
1!J J3315 Injection, triptorelin pamoate, 
3.75 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TRELSTAR 
N1 ASC N 
K2d' ASC K 
1!J J3316 Injection, triptorelin, extended-release, 
3.75 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TRIPTODUR 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
El J3320 Injection, spectinomycin dihydrochloride, 
up to 2 gm 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J3350 Injection, urea, up to 40 gm 
KS!?- ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l!J J3355 Injection, urofollitropin, 75 IU 
KS!?- ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
d' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A- Y = APC Status indicator 
11Jm MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Em! Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
321 
J3357-J3415 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
322 
B J3357 Ustekinumab, for subcutaneous injection, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: STELARA 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2016, Q4; 2017, 
Q1 
B J3358 Ustekinumab, for intravenous injection, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: STELARA (IV INFUSION) 
B J3360 Injection, diazepam, up to 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DIAZEPAM 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q2 
B J3364 Injection, urokinase, 5000 IU vial 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
B J3365 Injection, IV, urokinase, 250,000 IU 
vial 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
B J3370 Injection, vancomycin HCI, 500 mg N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VANCOCIN HCL, VANCOMYCIN, 
VANCOMYCIN HCL, VANCOMYCIN HCL 
FOR INJ USP PREMIER LYOPHILIZED 1 G 
20ML, VANCOMYCIN HYDROCHLORIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J3371 Injection, vancomycin hcl (mylan) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J3370, 
500 mg 
ON 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: VANCOMYCIN HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B J3372 Injection, vancomycin hcl (xellia) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J3370, 
500 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
ON 
Drugs: VANCOMYCIN, VANCOMYCIN HCL, 
VANCOMYCIN HYDROCHLORIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
B J3380 Injection, vedolizumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ENTYVIO 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B J3385 Injection, velaglucerase alfa, 
100 units 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VPRIV 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
K2 ASC K 
K2 ASC K 
B J3396 Injection, verteporfin, 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VISUDYNE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 01; 2020, 01 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 300.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 300.2 
B J3397 Injection, vestronidase alfa-vjbk, 
1 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
B J3398 Injection, voretigene neparvovec-rzyl, 
1 billion vector genomes 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LUXTURNA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
B J3399 Injection, onasemnogene abeparvovec­
xioi, per treatment, up to 5x1015 vector 
genomes 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
OK 
Drugs: ZOLGENSMA 1X5.5 ML VIAL AND 
2X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 1X5.5 ML 
VIAL AND 3X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 
1X5.5 ML VIAL AND 4X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, 
ZOLGENSMA 1X5.5 ML VIAL AND 5X8.3 ML 
VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 1X5.5 ML VIAL AND 
6X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 1 X5.5 ML 
VIAL AND 7X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 
1X5.5 ML VIAL AND 9X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, 
ZOLGENSMA 2X5.5 ML VIAL AND 1X8.3 ML 
VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 2X5.5 ML VIAL AND 
2X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 2X5.5 ML 
VIAL AND 3X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 
2X5.5 ML VIAL AND 4X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, 
ZOLGENSMA 2X5.5 ML VIAL AND 5X8.3 ML 
VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 2X5.5 ML VIAL AND 
6X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 2X5.5 ML 
VIAL AND 7X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 
2X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 3X8.3 ML 
VIAL KIT, ZOLGENSMA 4X8.3 ML VIAL 
KIT, ZOLGENSMA 5X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, 
ZOLGENSMA 6X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, 
ZOLGENSMA 7X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, 
ZOLGENSMA 8X8.3 ML VIAL KIT, 
ZOLGENSMA 9X8.3 ML VIAL KIT 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
B J3400 Injection, triflupromazine HCI, 
up to 20 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
KS ASC E2 
• B J3401 Beremagene geperpavec-svdt for topical 
administration, containing nominal 5 x 109 
pfu/ml vector genomes, per 0.1 ml 
O 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J3410 Injection, hydroxyzine HCI, 
up to 25 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HYDROXYZINE HCL 
N1 ASC N 
B J3411 Injection, thiamine HCI, 100 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: THIAMINE, THIAMINE HCL, 
THIAMINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
B J3415 Injection, pyridoxine HCI, 100 mg N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PYRIDOXINE HCL 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02 
• Newcode
A Revised code m Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic-
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
l:J J3420 Injection, vitamin B-12 cyanocobalamin, 
up to 1000 mcg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CYANOCOBALAMIN, DODEX 
• l:J J3425 Injection, hydroxocobalamin, 10 mcg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
I?) J3430 Injection, phytonadione (vitamin K), 
per 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PHYTONADIONE, VITAMIN K1 
I?) J3465 Injection, voriconazole, 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VFEND IV, VORICONAZOLE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02 
I?) J3470 Injection, hyaluronidase, 
up to 150 units 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
I?) J3471 Injection, hyaluronidase, ovine, 
preservative free, per 1 USP unit 
(up to 999 USP units) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VITRASE 
I?) J3472 Injection, hyaluronidase, ovine, preservative 
free, per 1000 USP units 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l:J J3473 Injection, hyaluronidase, recombinant, 
1 USP unit 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HYLENEX 
I?) J3475 Injection, magnesium sulfate, 
per 500 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: MAGNESIUM SULFATE, 
MAGNESIUM SULFATE IN 5% DEXTROSE, 
MAGNESIUM SULFATE-DEXTROSE 
I?) J3480 Injection, potassium chloride, 
per 2 mEq 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, 
POTASSIUM CHLORIDE IN DEXTROSE, 
POTASSIUM CHLORIDE IN SODIUM 
CHLORIDE, POTASSIUM CHLORIDE/ 
DEXTROSE, POTASSIUM CHLORIDE/ 
SODIUM CHLORIDE 
I?) J3485 Injection, zidovudine, 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: RETROVIR 
B J3486 Injection, ziprasidone mesylate. 
10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GEODON, ZIPRASIDONE 
MESYLATE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
B J3489 Injection, zoledronic acid, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: RECLAST, ZOLEDRONIC ACID 
Coding Cllnlc: 2013, 04 
J3420 - J7070 
I?) J3490 Unclassified drugs 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 04; 2008, 01; 2009, 
02; 2013, 01; 2010, 03; 2014, 02; 2012, 
04; 2014, 04; 2017, 01; 2017, 01; 2021, 
03; 2023, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-a. 60.2.1.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 280.2 
m J3520 Edetate disodium, per 150 mg 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I?) J3530 Nasal vaccine inhalation 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
m J3535 Drug administered through a metered dose 
inhaler 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m J3570 Laetrile, amygdalin, vitamin B17 
E1 
B JJsso 
B JJss1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Unclassified biologics 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q4; 2016, Q4; 2017, 
01; 2023, Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 280.2 
Unclassified drug or biological used for 
ESRD on dialysis 
B 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
I?) J7030 Infusion, normal saline solution, 
1000 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SODIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM 
CHLORIDE (FDA OK'D IMPORT) 
I?) J7040 Infusion, normal saline solution, 
sterile (500 ml=1 unit) 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SODIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM 
CHLORIDE (FDA OK'D IMPORT) 
I?) J7042 5% dextrose/normal saline 
(500 ml = 1 unit) 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEXTROSE-NACL 
I?) J7050 Infusion, normal saline solution, 
N1 ASC N 
250 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SODIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM 
CHLORIDE (FDA OK'D IMPORT) 
I?) J7060 5% dextrose/water 
(500 ml = 1 unit) 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: DEXTROSE, DEXTROSE 5% 
I?) J7070 Infusion, D5W, 1000 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DEXTROSE, DEXTROSE 5% 
cl' Male only 
$ Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -23 = ASC Payment Indicator 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y • APC Status lndlcïtor 
11JW MIPScode 
CPT- is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
323 
J7100-J7192 
I!) J7100 Infusion, dextran 40, 500 ml 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
l:J J7110 Infusion, dextran 75, 500 ml 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
l:J J7120 Ringers lactate infusion, 
up to 1000 cc 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LACTATED RINGERS 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
l:J J7121 5% dextrose in lactated ringers infusion, 
up to 1000 cc 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
l:J J7131 Hypertonic saline solution, 1 ml 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
B J7168 Prothrombin complex concentrate 
{human), kcentra, per i.u. of factor IX 
activity 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: KCENTRA 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
B J7169 Injection, coagulation factor xa 
(recombinant), inactivated-zhzo (andexxa), 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ANDEXXA 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
B J7170 Injection, emicizumab-kxwh, 
0.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HEMLIBRA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
K2 ASC K 
B J7175 Injection, factor x, (human), 1 i.u. 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: COAGADEX 
Coding Clinic: 2017, Q1 
CLOTTING FACTORS (J7177-J7214) 
B J7177 Injection, human fibrinogen concentrate 
(fibryga), 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: FIBRYGA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
B J7178 Injection, human fibrinogen concentrate, 
not otherwise specified, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: RIASTAP 
I?) J7179 Injection, von willebrand factor 
(recombinant), (vonvendi), 1 i.u. 
vwf:rco 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: VONVENDI 
Coding Cllnlc: 2017, Q1 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J7180 Injection, factor XIII (antihemophilic factor, 
human), 1 IU 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CORIFACT 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q1 
B J7181 Injection, factor XIII a-subunit, (recombinant), 
per IU 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: TRETTEN 
B J7182 Injection, factor VIII, (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), (Novoeight), per IU K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: NOVOEIGHT 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
l:J J7183 Injection, von Willebrand factor complex 
(human), wilate, 1 IU VWF:RCo 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: WILATE 
B J7185 Injection, factor VIII (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant) (XYNTHA), per IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: XYNTHA 
l:J J7186 Injection, antihemophilic factor VIII/ 
von Willebrand factor complex (human), 
per factor VIII IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ALPHANATE NON WILLl:::BRAND 
FACTOR COMPLEX 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
l:J J7187 Injection, von Willebrand factor complex 
(Humate-P), per IU VWF:RCo 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HUMATE-P LOW DILUENT 
l:J J7188 Injection, factor VIII (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), (OBIZUR), per i.u. 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: OBIZUR 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
I:] J7189 Factor viia (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), (novoseven rt), 
1 microgram 
K2 ASC K
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NOVOSEVEN RT 
l:J J7190 Factor VIII (antihemophilic factor, human) 
per IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HEMOFIL M, KOATE, KOATE-DVI 
l:J J7191 Factor VIII (antihemophilic factor (porcine)), 
per IU 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
I:] J7192 Factor VIII (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant) per IU, not otherwise 
specified 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ADVATE, KOGENATE FS, 
RECOMBINATE 
• Newcode 
.t. Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
I!] Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
e:J Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
324 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J7193 Factor IX (antihemophilic factor, purified, 
non-recombinant) per IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ALPHANINE SD, ALPHANINE®SD 
VF 1000 IU M2V USA, ALPHANINE®SD VF 
1500 IU M2V USA, ALPHANINE®SD VF 500 
IU M2V USA, MONONINE 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02 
B J7194 Factor IX, complex, per IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PROFILNINE, PROFILNINE® SD 
FIX SD M2V(1000), PROFILNINE® SD FIX 
SD M2V(1500), PROFILNINE® SD FIX SD 
M2V(500) 
I!] J7195 Injection, factor IX (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant) per IU, not otherwise 
specified 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BENEFIX 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02; 2002, 01 
B J7196 Injection, antithrombin recombinant, 
50 IU 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
I!] J7197 Antithrombin Ill (human), per IU 
K2 ASC K
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: THROMBATE Ill 
l!J J7198 Anti-inhibitor, per IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FEIBA NF 
I!] J7199 Hemophilia clotting factor, not otherwise 
classified 
B 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
1!J J7200 Injection, factor IX, (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), Rixubis, per IU 
K2 ASC K
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: RIXUBIS 
I!] J7201 Injection, factor ix, fc fusion protein, 
(recombinant), alprolix, 1 i.u. 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ALPROLIX 
I!] J7202 Injection, factor ix, albumin fusion protein, 
(recombinant), idelvion, 1 i.u. 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: IDELVION 
I!] J7203 Injection factor ix, (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), glycopegylated, (rebinyn), 
1 iu 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: COAGULATION FACTOR IX 
(RECOMBI, REBINYN 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
B J7204 Injection, factor viii, antihemophilic factor 
(recombinant), (esperoct), glycopegylated-
exei, per iu 
K2 O ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ESPEROCT 
Coding Clinlc: 2020, Q2 
J7193-J7294 
1!J J7205 Injection, factor VIII Fe fusion protein 
(recombinant), per IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ELOCTATE 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
I!] J7207 Injection, factor viii, (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), pegylated, 1 i.u. 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ADYNOVATE 
I!] J7208 Injection, factor viii, (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), pegylated-aucl, 0ivi), 
1 i.u. 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: JIVI 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
B J7209 Injection, factor viii, (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), (nuwiq), 1 i.u. 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NUWIO 
B J7210 Injection, factor VIII, (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), (afstyla), 1 1.U. 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AFSTYLA 
B J7211 Injection, factor VIII, (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant), (kovaltry), 1 1.U. 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: KOVALTRY 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1 
B J7212 Factor viia (antihemophilic factor, 
recombinant)-jncw (sevenfact), 
1 microgram 
K2 o ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: SEVENFACT 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01 
• I!] J7213 Injection, coagulation factor IX 
(recombinant), ixinity, 1 i.u. 
K2 O ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: IXINITY 
Coding Cllnlc: 2023, Q3 
• B J7214 Injection, factor Vlll/von willebrand factor
complex, recombinant (altuviiio), per factor 
VIII i.u. 
K2 0 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ALTUVIIIO 
CONTRACEPTIVE SYSTEMS (J7294•J7307) 
El) J7294 Segesterone acetate and ethinyl estradiol 
0.15mg, 0.013mg per 24 hours; yearly 
vaginal system, each 
Å O E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(1) 
Coding Cllnlc: 2021, Q4 
cl' Male only 
Æ Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
liID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
11JiiD MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
325 
J7295-J7320 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
326 
EJ J7295 Ethinyl estradiol and etonogestrel 0.015mg, 
0.12mg per 24 hours; monthly vaginal ring, 
each 
® o E1 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
EJ J7296 Levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine 
contraceptive system, (kyleena), 
19.5 mg 
® E1 
BETOS: P6C 
Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(1) 
EJ J7297 Levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine 
contraceptive system (liletta), 
52 mg 
o E1 
BETOS: P6C 
Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
EJ J7298 Levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine 
contraceptive system (mirena), 
52 mg 
® 0 E1 
BETOS: P6C 
Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1; 2023, Q1 
EJ J7300 Intrauterine copper contraceptive 
® o E1 
BETOS: P6C 
Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A 1 
D J7301 Levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine 
contraceptive system (skyla), 13.5 mg 
® E1 
BETOS: P6C 
Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(1) 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
D J7304 Contraceptive supply, hormone containing 
patch, each 
® o E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862.1 
D J7306 Levonorgestrel (contraceptive) implant 
system, including implants and supplies 
E1 
BETOS: P6C 
Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D J7307 Etonogestrel (contraceptive) implant system, 
including implant and supplies 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
MISCELLANEOUS DRUGS (J7308-J7402) 
B J7308 Aminolevulinic acid HCI for topical 
administration, 20%, single unit dosage form 
(354 mg) 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: LEVULAN KERASTICK 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1; 2005, Q2; 2020, 
Q1 
l!J J7309 Methyl aminolevulinate (MAL) for topical 
administration, 16.8%, 1 gram 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2020, Q1 
l!J J7310 Ganciclovir, 4.5 mg, long-acting 
implant 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J7311 Injection, fluocinolone acetonide, intravitreal 
implant (retisert), 0.01 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FLUOCINOLONE ACETONIDE 
IMPLT (RETISERT) 
B J7312 Injection, dexamethasone, intravitreal 
implant, 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: OZURDEX 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
B J7313 Injection, fluocinolone acetonide, intravitreal 
implant (lluvien), 0.01 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ILUVIEN 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B J7314 Injection, fluocinolone acetonide, intravitreal 
implant (Yutiq), 0.01 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: YUTIQ 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B J7315 Mitomycin, ophthalmic, 0.2 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2; 2014, Q2; 2016, 
Q4 
B J7316 Injection, ocriplasmin, 0.125 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2; 2002, Q1; 2013, 
Q4 
B J7318 Hyaluronan or derivative, durolane, 
for intra-articular injection, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DUROLANE 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
B J7320 Hyaluronan or derivitive, genvisc 850, for 
intra-articular injection, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: GENVISC 850 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q1 
• New code
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment 
[!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
la Non-covered by Medicare 
D Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J7321 Hyaluronan or derivative, hyalgan, supartz 
or visco-3, for intra-articular injection, 
per dose 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HYALGAN, SUPARTZ FX, VISCO-3 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 01; 2012, 04; 2020, 
02; 2021, 01 
B J7322 Hyaluronan or derivative, hymovis, for intra-
articular injection, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HYMOVIS 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 01 
B J7323 Hyaluronan or derivative, Euflexxa, for intra-
articular injection, per dose 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: EUFLEXXA 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 01; 2012, 04 
B J7324 Hyaluronan or derivative, Orthovisc, for intra-
articular injection, per dose 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ORTHOVISC 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 01; 2012, 04 
B J7325 Hyaluronan or derivative, Synvisc or 
Synvisc-One, for intra-articular injection, 
1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SYNVISC, SYNVISCONE 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 04 
B J7326 Hyaluronan or derivative, Gel-One, for intra-
articular injection, per dose 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: GEL-ONE 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 01; 2012, 04 
B J7327 Hyaluronan or derivative, monovisc, for intra-
articular injection, per dose 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: MONOVISC 
Coding Clinic: 2014, 04 
B J7328 Hyaluronan or derivative, Gel-Syn, for intra-
articular injection, 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: GELSYN-3 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B J7329 Hyaluronan or derivative, trivisc, for intra-
articular injection, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TRIVISC 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
B J7330 Autologous cultured chondrocytes, implant B 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2010, 04 
B J7331 Hyaluronan or derivative, synojoynt, for intra-
articular injection, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SYNOJOYNT 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
J7321 - J7501 
B J7332 Hyaluronan or derivative, triluron, for intra-
articular injection, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BET0S: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TRILURON 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B J7336 Capsaicin 8% patch, per square 
centimeter 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: OUTENZA 
B J7340 Carbidopa 5 mg/levodopa 20 mg enteral 
suspension, 100 ml 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: DUOPA 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01; 2006, 04; 2008, 
04; 2016, 01 
B J7342 Instillation, ciprofloxacin otic suspension, 
6 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: OTIPRIO 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
EJ J7345 Aminolevulinic acid hcl for topical 
administration, 10% gel, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: AMELUZ GEL, AMINOLEVULINIC 
ACID HYDROCHLORIDE NANOEMULSION 
10% TOPICAL GEL 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 01; 2017, 04; 2018, 
01; 2020, 01 
B J7351 Injection, bimatoprost, intracameral implant, 
1 microgram 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: DURYSTA 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 04 
B J7352 Afamelanotide implant, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SCENESSE 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01 
• B J7353 Anacaulase-bcdb, 8.8% gel,
1 gram 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
K2 0 ASC K 
N1 OASC N 
B J7402 Mometasone furoate sinus implant, (sinuva), 
10 micrograms 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SINUVA 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01 
IMMUNOSUPPRESSIVE DRUGS (J7500-J7599) 
EJ J7500 Azathioprine, oral, 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: AZASAN, AZATHIOPRINE 
EJ J7501 Azathioprine, parenteral, 100 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: AZATHIOPRINE INJECTION 
cl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
fJ Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
lilD Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
IIJm MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
327 
J7502-J7606 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
328 
B J7502 Cyclosporine, oral, 100 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
B J1so3 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: CYCLOSPORINE, CYCLOSPORINE 
MODIFIED, GENGRAF, NEORAL, 
SANDIMMUNE 
Tacrolimus, extended release, 
(Envarsus XR), oral, 0.25 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ENVARSUS XR 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
N1 ASC N 
B J7504 Lymphocyte immune globulin, 
antithymocyte globulin, equine, parenteral, 
250 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ATGAM 
B J7505 Muromonab-CD3, parenteral, 
5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
B J7507 Tacrolimus, immediate release, oral, 
1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PROGRAF, PROGRAF GRANULES, 
TAC ROLi MUS 
B J7508 Tacrolimus, extended release, (Astagraf XL), 
oral, 0.1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ASTAGRAF XL 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1; 2016, Q1 
B J7509 Methylprednisolone oral, 
per 4 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: MEDROL, MEDROL 
(PAK), METHYLPREDNISOLONE, 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE (PAK) 
B J7510 Prednisolone oral, per 5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: PREDNISOLONE 
B J7511 Lymphocyte immune globulin, antithymocyte 
globulin, rabbit, parenteral, 25 mg K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: THYMOGLOBULIN 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2; 2002, Q1 
B J7512 Prednisone, immediate release or delayed 
release, oral, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PREDNISONE, PREDNISONE 
INTENSOL 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B J7513 Daclizumab, parenteral, 25 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
B J7515 Cyclosporine, oral, 25 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CYCLOSPORINE, CYCLOSPORINE 
MODIFIED, GENGRAF, NEORAL, 
SANDIMMUNE 
B J7516 Cyclosporin, parenteral, 250 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J7517 Mycophenolate mofetil, oral, 
250 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: CELLCEPT, MYCOPHENOLATE 
MOFETIL 
B J7518 Mycophenolic acid, oral, 180 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MYCOPHENOLIC ACID, 
MYCOPHENOLIC ACID DR, MYFORTIC 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
• B J7519 Injection, mycophenolate mofetil,
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CELLCEPT - IV, MYCOPHENOLATE 
MOFETlllV 
B J7520 Sirolimus, oral, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: RAPAMUNE, SIROLIMUS 
B J7525 Tacrolimus, parenteral, 5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PROGRAF 
B J7527 Everolimus, oral, 0.25 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Drugs: EVEROLIMUS, ZORTRESS 
B J7599 lmmunosuppressive drug, not otherwise 
classified 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
INHALATION SOLUTIONS (J7604-J7686) 
B J7604 Acetylcysteine, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per gram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
B J7605 Arformoterol, inhalation solution, FDA 
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose form, 
15 micrograms 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: ARFORMOTEROL, 
ARFORMOTEROL TARTRATE 
B J7606 Formoterol fumarate, inhalation solution, 
FDA approved final product, non­
compounded, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, 20 micrograms 
M 
BETOS: D1G Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: FORMOTEROL FUMARATE, 
PERFOROMIST 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
• New code 
• Revised code
EJI Carrier judgment 
B Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
B Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
mi J7607 Levalbuterol. inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME. concentrated form, 0.5 mg 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l]J J7608 Acetylcysteine, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose form, 
per gram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: ACETYLCYSTEINE 
B J7609 Albuterol, inhalation solution, compounded 
product, administered through DME, unit 
dose, 1 mg 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Inhaler 
B J7610 Albuterol, inhalation solution, compounded 
product, administered through DME, 
concentrated form. 1 mg 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l]J J7611 Albuterol, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, concentrated 
form, 1 mg 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Drugs: ALBUTEROL SULFATE 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q2; 2008, Q2; 2009, 
Q3 
l]J J7612 Levalbuterol, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product. non-compounded, 
administered through DME, concentrated 
form, 0.5 mg 
M 
BETOS: D 1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Drugs: LEVALBUTEROL, 
LEVALBUTEROL INHALATION SOLUTION 
CONCENTRATED.XOPENEX 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q2; 2008, Q2; 2009, Q3 
J7607-J7627 
l]J J7613 Albuterol, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose, 
1 mg 
M 
BETOS: D 1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Drugs: ALBUTEROL SULPATE 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q2; 2008, Q2; 2009 
Q3 
l]J J7614 Levalbuterol, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose, 
0.5mg 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Drugs: LEVALBUTEROL, LEVALBUTEROL 
HYDROCHLORIDE. XOPENEX 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q2; 2008, Q2; 2009, 
Q3 
B J7615 Levalbuterol. inhalation solution. 
compounded product, administered through 
DME. unit dose, 0.5 mg 
M 
BETOS: D1G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l]J J7620 Albuterol, up to 2.5 mg and ipratropium 
bromide, up to 0.5 mg, FDA-approved final 
product, non-compounded, administered 
through DME 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: ALBUTEROL IPRATROPIUM 
B J7622 Beclomethasone. inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
B J7624 Betamethasone, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
B J7626 Budesonide, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose form, 
up to 0.5 mg 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: BUDESONIDE, PULMICORT 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
B J7627 Budesonide, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME. unit dose form, up to 0.5 mg 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
cf Male only 
: Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
lllml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
li:IW MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Associatian. Alf rights reserved. 
329 
J7628 - J7649 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
330 
m J1s2s Bitolterol mesylate, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, concentrated form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7629 Bitolterol mesylate, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7631 Cromolyn sodium, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose form, 
per 1 O milligrams 
M 
BETOS: D1G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: CROMOLYN SODIUM 
B J7632 Cromolyn sodium, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per 10 milligrams 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
B J7633 Budesonide, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, concentrated 
form, per 0.25 milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
B J7634 Budesonide, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered 
through DME, concentrated form, per 0.25 
milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7635 Atropine, inhalation solution, compounded 
product, administered through DME, 
concentrated form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7636 Atropine, inhalation solution, compounded 
product, administered through DME, unit 
dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D 1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7637 Dexamethasone, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, concentrated form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7638 Dexamethasone, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7639 Dornase alfa, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose form, 
per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: PULMOZYME 
B J7640 Formoterol, inhalation solution, compounded 
product, administered through DME, unit 
dose form, 12 micrograms 
E1 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q1 
B J7641 Flunisolide, inhalation solution, compounded 
product, administered through DME, unit 
dose, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
(?J J7642 Glycopyrrolate, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, concentrated form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7643 Glycopyrrolate, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D 1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7644 lpratropium bromide, inhalation solution, 
FDA-approved final product, non­
compounded, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: IPRATROPIUM BROMIDE 
B J7645 lpratropium bromide, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
B J7647 lsoetharine HCI, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, concentrated form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
(?J J7648 lsoetharine HCI, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, concentrated 
form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l!J J7649 lsoetharine HCI, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose form, 
per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
• Newcode 
• Revised code 
l:J Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
(a Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding CliniC-
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medico/ Association. All rights reserved. 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
la J7650 lsoetharine HCI, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
la J7657 lsoproterenol HCI, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, concentrated form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l!I J7658 lsoproterenol HCI, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, concentrated 
form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
1!J J7659 lsoproterenol HCI, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose form, 
per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l!JI J7660 lsoproterenol HCI, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
la J7665 Mannitol, administered through an inhaler, 
5 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
la J7667 Metaproterenol sulfate, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, concentrated form, 
per 10 milligrams 
M 
BETOS: D1G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l!J J7668 Metaproterenol sulfate, inhalation solution, 
FDA-approved final product, non­
compounded, administered through DME, 
concentrated form, per 10 milligrams 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
1!J J7669 Metaproterenol sulfate, inhalation 
solution, FDA-approved final product, 
non-compounded, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per 10 milligrams 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
la J7670 Metaproterenol sulfate, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per 10 milligrams 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l!JI J7674 Methacholine chloride administered as 
inhalation solution through a nebulizer, 
per 1 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PROVOCHOLINE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02 
J7650-J7686 
la J7676 Pentamidine isethionate, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per 300 mg 
M 
BETOS: D 1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
la J7677 Revefenacin inhalation solution, 
fda-approved final product, non­
compounded, administered through DME, 
1 microgram 
M 
BETOS: D 1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: YUPELRI 
l!J J7680 Terbutaline sulfate, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, concentrated form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: 01 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
1!J J7681 Terbutaline sulfate, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l!J J7682 Tobramycin, inhalation solution, 
FDA-approved final product, non­
compounded, unit dose form, administered 
through DME, per 300 milligrams 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: BETHKIS, KITABIS PAK, TOBI, 
TOBRAMYCIN, TOBRAMYCIN INHALATION 
l!J J7683 Triamcinolone, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered 
through DME, concentrated form, 
per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
OME 
1!J J7684 Triamcinolone, inhalation solution, 
compounded product, administered 
through DME, unit dose form, 
per milligram 
M 
BETOS: D1G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
la J7685 Tobramycin, inhalation solution, compounded 
product, administered through DME, unit 
dose form, per 300 milligrams 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
l!JI J7686 Treprostinil, inhalation solution, FDA­
approved final product, non-compounded, 
administered through DME, unit dose form, 
1.74 mg 
M 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: TYVASO, TYVASO (REFILL KIT), 
TYVASO (STARTER KIT) 
a'" Male only 
 Female only 
O Age 
A2-Z3"" ASC Payment indicator 
A• Y = APC Status indicator 
lil!m MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
llLlII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
331 
J7699 - J8999 
DRUGS, NOT OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED (J7699-J8499) 
B J7699 Noc drugs, inhalation solution administered 
through DME 
M 
BETOS: D1 G Drugs Administered through 
DME 
B J7799 Noc drugs, other than inhalation drugs, 
administered through DME 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1 G 
Drugs Administered through 
DME 
B J7999 Compounded drug, not otherwise 
classified 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01; 2016, 04; 2017, 
01 
B J8498 Antiemetic drug, rectal/suppository, 
not otherwise specified 
B 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Statute: 1861 s2T 
li!J J8499 Prescription drug, oral, non 
chemotherapeutic, NOS 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
CHEMOTHERAPY DRUGS, ORAL ADMINISTRATION 
(J8501-J8999) 
B J8501 Aprepitant, oral, 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: APREPITANT, APREPITANT 
(Bl FOLD), APREPITANT (TRI-FOLD), 
APREPITANT 3-DAY PACK, EMEND, 
EMEND Bl-PACK, EMEND TRI-FOLD 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
EJ J8510 Busulfan; oral, 2 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
li!J J8515 Cabergoline, oral, 0.25 mg 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EJ J8520 Capecitabine, oral, 150 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CAPECITABINE, XELODA 
EJ J8521 Capecitabine, oral, 500 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CAPECITABINE, XELODA 
EJ J8530 Cyclophosphamide; oral, 25 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
EJ J8540 Dexamethasone, oral, 0.25 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1861 ( s )2T 
Drugs: DEXAMETHASONE 
EJ J8560 Etoposide; oral, 50 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ETOPOSIDE 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs Administered Other Than Oral Method (J0120-J8999) 
B J8562 Fludarabine phosphate, oral, 
10 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
K5ASC E2 
EJ J8565 Gefitinib, oral, 250 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2014, 04 
EJ J8597 Antiemetic drug, oral, not otherwise 
specified 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 1861s2T 
EJ J8600 Melphalan; oral, 2 mg 
K5ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
EJ J8610 Methotrexate; oral, 2.5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: METHOTREXATE, TREXALL 
B J8650 Nabilone, oral, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
K5 ASC E2 
EJ J8655 Netupitant 300 mg and palonosetron 0.5 mg, 
oral 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AKYNZEO 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
EJ J8670 Rolapitant, oral, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VARUBI ORAL (ROLAPITANT) 
EJ J8700 Temozolomide, oral, 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: TEMODAR, TEMOZOLOMIDE 
B J8705 Topotecan, oral, 0.25 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: HYCAMTIN, ORAL 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 01; 2008, 04 
EJ J8999 Prescription drug, oral, chemotherapeutic, 
NOS 
B 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
• New code 
• Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
la Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
332 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Chemotherapy Drugs (J9000-J9999} 
CHEMOTHERAPY DRUGS (J9000-J9999) 
CHEMOTHERAPY DRUGS, ADMINISTERED BY INJECTION 
(J9000-J9999), SEE ALSO CHEMOTHERAPY DRUGS, ORAL 
ADMINISTRATION (J8501-J8999) 
l:J J9000 Injection, doxorubicin hydrochloride, 
10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ADRIAMYCIN, DOXORUBICIN HCL, 
DOXORUBICIN HCL (LYO) 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 04 
l:J J9015 Injection, aldesleukin, per single 
use vial 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02 
B J9017 Injection, arsenic trioxide, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ARSENIC TRIOXIDE, TRISENOX 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02; 2002, 01; 2005, 
02 
l:J J9019 Injection, asparaginase (Erwinaze), 
1,000 IU 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ERWINAZE 
1:J J9020 Injection, asparaginase, not otherwise 
specified, 10,000 units 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
B J9021 Injection, asparaginase, recombinant, 
(rylaze), 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: RYLAZE 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 01 
B J9022 Injection, atezolizumab, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: TECENTRIO, TECENTRIO 
(ATEZOLIZUMAB) 
B J9023 Injection, avelumab, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: BAVENCIO 
K2 ASC K 
B J9025 Injection, azacitidine, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: AZACITIDINE, AZACITIDINE 
(VIDAZA) 
B J9027 Injection, clofarabine, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CLOFARABINE, CLOLAR 
• B J9029 Injection, Nadofaragene Firadenovec-Vncg,
Per Therapeutic Dose 
e E2 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
1:J J9030 BCG live intravesical 
instillation, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: TICE BCG 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
N1 ASC N 
J9000-J9045 
B J9032 Injection, belinostat, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BELEODAO 
K2 ASC K 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B J9033 Injection, bendamustine HCL 
(treanda ). 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BENDAMUSTINE, TREANDA 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
B J9034 Injection, bendamustine HCL 
(bendeka), 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BENDEKA 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
B J9035 Injection, bevacizumab, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: AVASTIN 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02; 2013, 01; 2013, 
03 
B J9036 Injection, bendamustine hydrochloride, 
(belrapzo/bendamustine), 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BELRAPZO, BENDAMUSTINE 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
B J9037 Injection. belantamab mafodotin-blmf. 
0.5 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2021. 01 
B J9039 Injection, blinatumomab, 
1 microgram 
K2ASC K 
l:J J9040 
B J9041 
B J9042 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BLINCYTO 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
Injection, bleomycin sulfate, 
15 units 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BLEOMYCIN, BLEOMYCIN 
SULFATE 
Injection, bortezomib, 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BORTEZOMIB, VELCADE 
Coding Clinic: 2.005, 02; 2005, 01; 2023, 
01 
Injection, brentuximab 
vedotin, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ADCETRIS 
K2ASC K 
B J9043 Injection, cabazitaxel, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: JEVTANA 
K2 ASC K 
1:J J9045 Injection, carboplatin, 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CARBOPLATIN, PARAPLATIN 
cl' Male only 
ä Fem ale only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedu re 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indic ator 
Eli1J Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicato r
&:!ID MIPScode
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved 
333 
J9046 -J9120 
B J9046 Injection, bortezomib, (dr. reddy's), 
not therapeutically equivalent to 
J9041,0.1 mg 
K2OASCK 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BORTEZOMIB 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J9047 Injection, carfilzomib, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: KYPROLIS 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q4 
K2 ASC K 
B J9048 Injection, bortezomib (fresenius kabi), 
not therapeutically equivalent to 
J9041, 0.1 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BORTEZOMIB 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J9049 Injection, bortezomib (hospira), 
not therapeutically equivalent to 
J9041, 0.1 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BORTEZOMIB 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
EJ J9050 Injection, carmustine, 100 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BICNU, CARMUSTINE 
• B J9051 Injection, bortezomib (maia), 
not therapeutically equivalent to 
K2 ASC K 
J9041, 0.1 mg 
K5 0 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
• EJ J9052 Injection, carmustine (accord),
not therapeutically equivalent to 
J9050, 100 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
B J9055 Injection, cetuximab, 1 O mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ERBITUX 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
K2ASC K 
• B J9056 Injection, bendamustine hydrochloride 
(vivimusta), 1 mg 
K2 o ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VIVIMUSTA 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
B J9057 Injection, copanlisib, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ALIQOPA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
K2 ASC K 
• B J9058 Injection, bendamustine hydrochloride 
(apotex), 1 mg 
K2 o ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BENDAMUSTINE (APOTEX) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B J9059 Injection, bendamustine hydrochloride
(baxter), 1 mg 
K2 o ASC K 
BET0S: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: BENDAMUSTINE 
HYDROCHLORIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
B Jgoso 
B J9os1 
Chemotherapy Drugs (J9000-J9999) 
Injection, cisplatin, powder or solution, 
10 mg 
N1ASCN 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CISPLATIN 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
Injection, amivantamab­
vmjw, 2 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: RYBREVANT 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q1 
K2 ASC G 
• B J9063 Injection, mirvetuximab soravtansine-
gynx, 1 mg 
K2 0 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ELAHERE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B J9064 Injection, cabazitaxel (sandoz),
not therapeutically equivalent to 
J9043, 1 mg 
K5 d" ASC E2 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
EJ J9065 Injection, cladribine, per 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CLADRIBINE 
K2 ASC K 
EJ J9070 Cyclophosphamide, 100 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE, 
CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE INJ 2G/10ML MDV 
APD 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
B J9071 Injection, cyclophosphamide, 
(auromedics), 5 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
• B J9072 Injection, cyclophosphamide,
(dr. reddy's), 5 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
B J9098 Injection, cytarabine liposome, 
10 mg 
BET0S: O1E 
Other drugs 
EJ J9100 Injection, cytarabine, 100 mg 
BET0S: O1D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CYTARABINE 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1 
0 
K5 ASC E2 
N1 ASC N 
B J9118 Injection, calaspargase pegol-mknl, 
10 units 
K5 0 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ASPARLAS 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B J9119 Injection, cemiplimab-rwlc, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: LIBTAYO 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
EJ J9120 Injection, dactinomycin, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: COSMEGEN, DACTINOMYCIN 
• Newcode 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
.A. Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
EJ Special coverage instructions apply 
la Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
334 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Chemotherapy Drugs (J9000-J9999) 
I!) J9130 Dacarbazine, 100 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 010 Chemotherapy 
Drugs: DACARBAZINE 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1; 2011, Q1 
l!I J9144 Injection, daratumumab, 10 mg and 
hyaluronidase-fihj 
K2 e ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: DARZALEX FASPRO 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
B J9145 Injection, daratumumab, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: DARZALEX 
B J9150 Injection, daunorubicin, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: DAUNORUBICIN HCL 
B J9151 Injection, daunorubicin Citrate, 
liposomal formulation, 10 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
l!I J9153 Injection, liposomal, 1 mg daunorubicin 
and 2.27 mg cytarabine 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: VYXEOS 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
l!I J9155 Injection, degarelix, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs: FIRMAGON 
B J9165 Injection, diethylstilbestrol diphosphate, 
250 mg 
K5 d"' ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
B J9171 Injection, docetaxel, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N1 ASC N
Drugs: DOCETAXEL 
• l!I J9172 Injection, docetaxel (ingenus) not
therapeutically equivalent to J9171, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
m J9173 Injection, durvalumab, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: IMFINZI 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
B J911s Injection, Elliotts' B solution, 1 ml N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
m J9176 Injection, elotuzumab, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: EMPLICITI 
m J9177 Injection, enfortumab vedotin-ejfv, 
0.25 mg 
K2 OASC K 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: PADCEV 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
m J911a Injection, epirubicin HCI, 2 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: ELLENCE, EPIRUBICIN 
J9130 - J9205 
l!I J9179 Injection, eribulin mesylate, 
0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: HALAVEN 
B J9181 Injection, etoposide, 10 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ETOPOPHOS, ETOPOSIDE 
B J9185 Injection, fludarabine phosphate, 
50 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE 
B J9190 Injection, fluorouracil, 500 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: FLUOROURACIL 
• B J9196 Injection, gemcitabine hydrochloride
(accord), not therapeutically equivalent to 
J9201, 200 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: GEMCITABINE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
l!I J9198 Injection, gemcitabine hydrochloride, 
(infugem), 100 mg 
K2 !il e ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: INFUGEM 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2; 2020, Q2 
B J9200 Injection, floxuridine, 500 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: FLOXURIDINE 
N1 ASC N 
B J9201 
B J9202 
Injection, gemcitabine hydrochloride, 
not otherwise specified, 200 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: GEMCITABINE, GEMCITABINE 
HCL, GEMCITABINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
Goserelin acetate implant, 
per 3.6 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ZOLADEX 
K2ASC K 
l!I J9203 Injection, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, 
0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: MYLOTARG 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 04; 2018, Q1 
l!I J9204 Injection, mogamulizumab­
kpkc, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: POTELIGEO 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B J9205 Injection, irinotecan 
liposome, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ONIVYDE 
K20ASC K 
K2ASC K
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
tllW MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of rhe American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
335 
J9206-J9250 
Chemotherapy Drugs (J9000-J9999) 
m J9206 Injection, irinotecan, 20 mg 
N1 ASC N 
m J9219 Leuprolide acetate implant, 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
65 mg 
KS ASC E2 
Drugs: CAMPTOSAR, IRINOTECAN HCL, 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
IRINOTECAN HYDROCHLORIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q4 
a J9201 Injection, ixabepilone, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
a J9223 Injection, lurbinectedin, 0.1 mg 
K2OASC G 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: IXEMPRA KIT 
Drugs: ZEPZELCA 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
m J92oa Injection, ifosfamide, 1 gram 
N1 ASC N 
m J922s Histrelin implant (Vantas), 50 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: IFEX, IFOSFAMIDE 
Drugs: VANTAS IMPLANT 
m J9209 Injection, mesna, 200 mg 
N1 ASC N 
m J9226 Histrelin implant (Supprelin LA), 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: MESNA, MESNEX 
BETOS: O1D Chemotherapy 
a J9210 Injection, emapalumab-
Drugs: SUPPRELIN LA IMPLANT 
lzsg, 1 mg 
K2OASC K 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1 
BETOS: 010 Chemotherapy 
Ii J9227 Injection, isatuximab-irfc, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs: GAMIFANT 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
Drugs: SARCLISA 
m J9211 Injection, idarubicin 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4 
hydrochloride, 5 mg 
N1 ASC N 
Ii J9228 Injection, ipilimumab, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: IDAMYCIN PFS, IDARUBICIN 
Drugs: YERVOY 
m J9212 Injection, interferon alfacon-1, 
Ii J9229 Injection, inotuzumab ozogamicin, 
recombinant, 1 microgram 
K5 ASC E2 
0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
m J9213 Injection, interferon, alfa-2a, 
Drugs: BESPONSA 
recombinant, 3 million units 
K5 ASC E2 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
BETOS: 010 Chemotherapy 
m J9230 Injection, mechlorethamine hydrochloride, 
m J9214 Injection, interferon, alfa-2b, 
(nitrogen mustard), 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
recombinant, 1 million units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
BETOS: O1D Chemotherapy 
m J924s Injection, melphalan hydrochloride, not 
Drugs: INTRON-A 
otherwise specified, 50 mg 
K2 ASC K 
m J921s Injection, interferon, alfa-N3, 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
(human leukocyte derived), 
Drugs: ALKERAN, MELPHALAN 
250,000 IU 
K5 ASC E2 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
BETOS: O1D Chemotherapy 
Ii J9246 Injection, melphalan 
m J9216 Injection, interferon, gamma 1-b, 
(evomela), 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
3 million units 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: EVOMELA 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
m J9211 Leuprolide acetate (for depot suspension), 
Ii J9247 Injection, melphalan 
7.5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
flufenamide, 1 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: O1D Chemotherapy 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ELIGARD, LUPRON DEPOT 
Drugs: PEPAXTO 
4-MONTH, 30MG , LUPRON DEPOT
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04 
6-MONTH, 45MG , LUPRON DEPOT 7.5 
m J92so Methotrexate sodium, 5 mg 
MG KIT, LUPRON DEPOT-3 MONTH 
N1 ASC N 
22.5MG KIT
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q2 
Drugs: METHOTREXATE, 
m J921s Leuprolide acetate, per 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
METHOTREXATE POWDER 1GM IN 50ML 
BETOS: O1D Chemotherapy 
SD VIAL (P.F.), METHOTREXATE SODIUM 
Drugs: LEUPROLIDE ACETATE 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 02 
• New code
• Revised code
l!I Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
e) Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
336 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Chemotherapy Drugs (J9000-J9999) 
• l:J J9255 Injection, methotrexate (accord) not
therapeutically equivalent to J9250 
and J9260, 50 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Reasonable charge 
• l:J J9258 Injection, paclitaxel protein-bound particles 
(teva) not therapeutically equivalent to 
J9264, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
• l:J J9259 Injection, paclitaxel protein-bound particles 
(american regent) not therapeutically 
equivalent to J9264, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
l!J J9260 Methotrexate sodium, 50 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: METHOTREXATE, 
METHOTREXATE POWDER 1GM IN 50ML 
SD VIAL (P.F.), METHOTREXATE SODIUM 
l:J J9261 Injection, nelarabine, 50 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARRANON, NELARABINE 
l:J J9262 Injection, omacetaxine mepesuccinate, 
0.01 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: SYNRIBO 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q4 
l:J J9263 Injection, oxaliplatin, 0.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: OXALIPLATIN 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q1 
l:J J9264 Injection, paclitaxel protein-bound 
N1 ASC N 
particles, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ABRAXANE, PACLITAXEL 
PROTEIN-BOUND 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
l!J J9266 Injection, pegaspargase, per single 
dose vial 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ONCASPAR 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2 
l!J J9267 Injection, paclitaxel, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: PACLITAXEL 
l!J J9268 Injection, pentostatin, 10 mg 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: NIPENT 
l:J J9269 Injection, tagraxofusp-erzs, 
N1 ASC N 
K2 ASC K 
1 0 micrograms 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ELZONRIS 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
l!J J9270 Injection, plicamycin, 2.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
N1 ASC N 
J9255-J9296 
l:J J9271 Injection, pembrolizumab, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: KEYTRUDA 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
l:J J9272 Injection, dostarlimab-gxly, 
10 mg 
K2 !? ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: JEMPERLI 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q1 
l:J J9273 Injection, tisotumab vedotin-
tftv, 1 mg 
K2 !? 0 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: TIVDAK 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
B J9274 Injection, tebentafusp-tebn, 
1 microgram 
K2 O ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: KIMMTRAK 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q4 
l!J J9280 Injection, mitomycin, 5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: MITOMYCIN, MUTAMYCIN 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2014, Q2; 2016, 
Q4; 2017, Q4 
B J9281 Mitomycin pyelocalyceal 
instillation, 1 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: JELMYTO 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
l:J J9285 Injection, olaratumab, 10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
• B J9286 Injection, glofitamab-gxbm, 2.5 mg 
0 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
l!J J9293 Injection, mitoxantrone hydrochloride, 
per 5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: MITOXANTRONE 
HYDROCHLORIDE 
• l:J J9294 Injection, pemetrexed (hospira) not
therapeutically equivalent to J9305, 
10 mg 
K2ASC K
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PEMETREXED DITROMETHAMINE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
l:J J9295 Injection, necitumumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: PORTRAZZA 
• B J9296 Injection, pemetrexed (accord) not
therapeutically equivalent to J9305, 
K2ASC K 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PEMETREXED 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
,i' Male only 
!? Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status i ndicator 
C!W MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
337 
J9297 - J9323 
• B J9297 Injection, pemetrexed (sandoz), not
therapeutically equivalent to J9305, 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PEMETREXED 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
B J9298 Injection, nivolumab and relatlimab-rmbw, 
3 mg/1 mg 
K2 0 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: OPDUALAG 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
l!J J9299 Injection, nivolumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs: OPDIVO 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B J9301 Injection, obinutuzumab, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs: GAZYVA 
B J9302 Injection, ofatumumab, 1 O mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
K2 ASC K 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
B J9303 Injection, panitumumab, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
K2 ASC K 
Drugs: PANITUMUMAB 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 01 
B J9304 Injection, pemetrexed (pemfexy), 
10 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PEMFEXY 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 04 
B J9305 Injection, pemetrexed, not otherwise 
specified, 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ALIMTA, PEMETREXED 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 02; 2020, 04; 2023, 
01; 2023, 02; 2023, 03 
B J9306 Injection, pertuzumab, 1 mg 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
K2 ASC K 
B J9301 
B J93oa 
B J93o9 
Drugs: PERJETA 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
Injection, pralatrexate, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs:FOLOTYN,PRALATREXATE 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
Injection, ramucirumab, 5 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CYRAMZA 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
Injection, polatuzumab vedotin­
piiq, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: POLIVY 
K2ASC K 
K2ASC K 
Chemotherapy Drugs (J9000-J9999) 
l!J J9311 Injection, rituximab 10 mg and 
hyaluronidase 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: RITUXAN HYCELA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
l!J J9312 Injection, rituximab, 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: RITUXAN 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
K2 ASC K 
B J9313 Injection, moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk, 
0.01 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: LUMOXITI 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
• B J9314 Injection, pemetrexed (teva) not
therapeutically equivalent to J9305, 
10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: PEMETREXED 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1; 2023, 02 
B J9316 Injection, pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and 
hyaluronidase-zzxf, per 10 mg 
K2 O ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: PHESGO 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01 
B J9317 Injection, sacituzumab govitecan-hziy, 
2.5 mg 
K2 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: TRODELVY 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01 
B J9318 Injection, romidepsin, non-lyophilized, 
0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ROMIDEPSIN NON-LYOPHILIZED 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04 
B J9319 Injection, romidepsin, lyophilized, 
0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ISTODAX (ROMIDEPSIN) 
LYOPHILIZED, ROMIDEPSIN LYOPHILIZED 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04 
l!J J9320 Injection, streptozocin, 1 gram 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ZANOSAR 
• B J9321 Injection, epcoritamab-bysp,
0.16 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
K2ASC K 
D5OASC 
• B J9322 Injection, pemetrexed (bluepoint) not
therapeutically equivalent to J9305, 
10 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B J9323 Injection, pemetrexed ditromethamine,
10 mg 
K2ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• Newcode
0 Not payable by Medicare 
... Revised code 
II Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
338 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Chemotherapy Drugs (J9000-J9999) 
• B J9324 Injection, pemetrexed (pemrydi rtu), 10 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
B J9325 Injection, talimogene laherparepvec, 
per 1 million plaque forming units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: IMLYGIC 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 02 
B J9328 Injection, temozolomide, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: TEMODAR IV 
B J9330 Injection, temsirolimus, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: TEMSIROLIMUS 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
K 2ASC K 
K2 ASC K 
B J9331 Injection, sirolimus protein-bound 
particles, 1 mg 
K2 O ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FYARRO 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 03 
B J9332 Injection, efgartigimod alfa­
fcab, 2mg 
K2OASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: EFGARTIGIMOD ALFA-FCAB 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q3 
• B J9333 Injection, rozanolixizumab-noli, 1 mg 
O 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
• B J9334 Injection, efgartigimod alfa, 2 mg and
hyaluronidase-qvfc 
O 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
0 J9340 Injection, thiotepa, 15 mg 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: THIOTEPA 
K2ASC K 
• B J9345 Injection, retifanlimab-dlwr, 1 mg K2 o ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ZYNYZ 
• B J9347 Injection, tremelimumab-
actl, 1 mg 
K20ASC G 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: IMJUDO 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
B J934s Injection, naxitamab-gqgk, 1 mg 
K2ASC G 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: DANYELZA 
Coding Cllnlc: 2021, 03 
B J9349 Injection, tafasitamab-cxix, 2 mg 
K2ASC G 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: MONJUVI 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01 
• B J93so Injection, mosunetuzumab-
axgb, 1 mg 
K20 ASC G 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: L UNSUMIO 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01; 2023, 03 
J9324 -J9371 
B J9351 Injection, topotecan, 0.1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: HYCAMTIN, TOPOTECAN 
Coding Clinic: 2011, 01 
B J9352 Injection, trabectedin, 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: YONDELIS 
B J9353 Injection, margetuximab­
cmkb, 5 mg 
K2ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: MARGENZA 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03 
B J9354 Injection, ado-trastuzumab 
emtansine, 1 mg 
K2ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: KADCYLA 
Coding Clinic: 2013, 04 
B J9355 Injection, trastuzumab, excludes biosimilar, 
10 mg 
K2ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HERCEPTIN 
Coding Clinlc: 2006, Q2; 2019, Q3 
B J9356 Injection, trastuzumab, 10 mg and 
Hyaluronidase-oysk 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HERCEPTIN HYLECTA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
0 J9357 Injection, valrubicin, intravesical, 
200 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VALRUBICIN, VALSTAR 
B J9358 Injection, fam-trastuzumab 
deruxtecan-nxki, 1 mg 
K2-i O ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ENHERTU 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
B J9359 Injection, loncastuximab tesirine-lpyl, 
0.075 mg 
K20 ASC G 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZYNLONTA 
'·' 
Coding Cllnlc: 2022, 02 
0 J9360 Injection, vinblastine sulfate, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: VINBLASTINE SULFATE 
0 J9370 Vincristine sulfate, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: VINCRISTINE SULFATE 
Coding Cllnlc: 2011, 01 
B J9371 Injection, vincristine sulfate 
liposome, 1 mg 
K2ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: VINCRISTINE SULFATE 
Coding Cllnlc: 2014, Q1 
d' Male only 
-i- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment indk:ator 
lllilII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
Cim MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
339 
J9380 _ J9999 
Chemotherapy Drugs (J9000-J9999) 
• B J9380 Injection, teclistamab-cqyv,
0.5 mg 
K2 OASC G 
BET0S: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: TECVAYLI 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2023, Q3 
• B J9381 Injection, teplizumab-mzwv, 
5 mcg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: TZIELD 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
EJ J9390 Injection, vinorelbine tartrate, 
K20ASC G 
10 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: NAVELBINE, VINORELBINE 
TARTRATE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q2 
B J9393 Injection, fulvestrant (teva) not 
therapeutically equivalent to J9395, 
25 mg 
K2 fl. ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FULVESTRANT 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J9394 Injection, fulvestrant (fresenius kabi) 
not therapeutically equivalent to J9395, 
25 mg 
K2fl-ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FULVESTRANT 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J9395 Injection, fulvestrant, 25 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FASLODEX, FULVESTRANT 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B J9400 Injection, ziv-aflibercept, 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZALTRAP 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q4 
EJ J9600 Injection, porfimer sodium, 75 mg K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: PHOTOFRIN 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q1 
EJ J9999 Not otherwise classified, antineoplastic 
drugs 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1; 2008, Q1; 2009, 
Q2;2013,Q1;2010,Q3;2012,Q4;2017,Q1 
• Newcode 
.t. Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
EJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
340 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Al/ rights reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (DME) (K0001-K1036) 
DURABLE MEDICAL EQUIPMENT (DME) 
(K0001-K1036) 
WHEELCHAIRS, COMPONENTS, AND ACCESSORIES 
(K0001-K0195) 
B K0001 Standard wheelchair 
ED y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
Wheelchair 
B K0002 Standard hemi (low seat) wheelchair 
EDY 
BETOS: D1D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0003 Lightweight wheelchair 
EDY 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0004 High strength, lightweight wheelchair ED y 
BETOS:D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0005 Ultralightweight wheelchair 
EDY 
BETOS: D1D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
B K000G Heavy duty wheelchair 
EDY 
BETOS: D10 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0007 Extra heavy duty wheelchair 
EDY 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
m K0008 Custom manual wheelchair/base 
y 
BETOS: D1D 
Wheelchairs 
B K0009 Other manual wheelchair/base 
EDY 
BETOS: D10 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
K0001 - K0041 
B K0010 Standard - weight frame motorized/ 
power wheelchair 
ED Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0011 Standard - weight frame motorized/power 
wheelchair with programmable control 
parameters for speed adjustment, tremor 
dampening, acceleration control and 
braking 
ED y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KF,RR 
B K0012 Lightweight portable motorized/power 
wheelchair 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
I!] K0013 Custom motorized/power wheelchair base Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B K0014 Other motorized/power wheelchair base 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B K0015 Detachable, non-adjustable height 
armrest, replacement only, each 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,RR 
B K0017 Detachable, adjustable height armrest, 
base, replacement only, each 
ED y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0018 Detachable, adjustable height armrest, 
upper portion, replacement only, each EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0019 Arm pad, replacement only, each 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0020 Fixed, adjustable height armrest, pair EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0037 High mount flip-up footrest, each 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0038 Leg strap, each 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0039 Leg strap, H style, each 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
EDY 
EDY 
limlY 
B K0040 Adjustable angle footplate, each 
liml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0041 Large size footplate, each 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
liml y 
cl' Male only 
-9- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A • Y = APC Status indicator 
llilID MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
liml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
341 
K0042 - K0455 
Durable Medical Equipment (DME) (K0001-K1036) 
342 
B K0042 Standard size footplate, replacement 
only, each 
EDY 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0043 Footrest, lower extension tube, 
replacement only, each 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0044 Footrest, upper hanger bracket, 
replacement only, each 
BETOS: 010 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0045 Footrest, complete assembly, 
replacement only, each 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0046 Elevating legrest, lower extension tube, 
EDY 
EDY 
EDY 
replacement only, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: 01 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0047 Elevating legrest, upper hanger bracket, 
replacement only, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K00S0 Ratchet assembly, replacement only 
ED Y 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0051 Cam release assembly, footrest or 
legrest, replacement only, each 
EDY 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0052 Swingaway, detachable footrests, 
replacement only, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0053 Elevating footrests, articulating 
(telescoping), each 
EDY 
BETOS: 01 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0056 Seat height less than· 17 inch or 
equal to or greater than 21 inch 
for a high strength, lightweight, or 
ultralightweight wheelchair 
EDY 
BETOS: 01 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0065 Spoke protectors, each 
EDY 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0069 Rear wheel assembly, complete, 
with solid tire, spokes or molded, 
replacement only, each 
BETOS: 01 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0070 Rear wheel assembly, complete, 
with pneumatic tire, spokes or 
molded, replacement only, each 
BETOS: 01 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU,RR 
B "0071 Front caster assembly, complete, 
with pneumatic tire, replacement 
only, each 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0072 Front caster assembly, complete, 
with semi-pneumatic tire, replacement 
EDY 
EDY 
EDY 
only, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: 01 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0073 Caster pin lock, each 
ED y 
BETOS: 01 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0077 Front caster assembly, complete, 
with solid tire, replacement only, each EDY 
BETOS: 01 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0098 Drive belt for power wheelchair, 
replacement only 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0105 IV hanger, each 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0108 Wheelchair component or accessory, 
EDY 
ED 
not otherwise specified 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
l!J K0195 Elevating leg rests, pair (for use with 
capped rental wheelchair base) 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,RR 
INFUSION PUMPS AND SUPPLIES (K0455-K0605) 
l!J K0455 Infusion pump used for uninterrupted 
parenteral administration of medication, 
(e.g., epoprostenol or treprostinol) 
EDY 
BETOS: D1E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
• Newcode
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
la Non-covered by Medicare 
Ii) Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. AIJ rights reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (DME) (K0001-K1036) 
Infusion pump 
l:J K0462 Temporary replacement for patient owned 
equipment being repaired, any type 
Y 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other OME 
E K0552 Supplies for external non-insulin drug 
infusion pump, syringe type cartridge, 
sterile, each 
Eml Y 
BETOS: 01E 
Other OME 
B K0601 Replacement battery for external infusion 
pump owned by patient, silver oxide, 
1.5 volt, each 
Eml Y 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q2 
B K0602 Replacement battery for external infusion 
pump owned by patient, silver oxide, 
3 volt, each 
Elli Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q2 
B K0603 Replacement battery for external 
infusion pump owned by patient, 
alkaline, 1.5 volt, each 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q2 
EDY 
B K0604 Replacement battery for external infusion 
pump owned by patient, lithium, 
3.6 volt, each 
Elli Y 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q2 
B K0605 Replacement battery for external infusion 
pump owned by patient, lithium, 
4.5 volt, each 
Eml Y 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other OME 
DME Modifier: NU 
Coding Clinic: 2003, Q2 
K0462 - K0739 
AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR AND SUPPLIES 
(K0606-K0609) 
B K0606 Automatic external defibrillator, with 
integrated electrocardiogram analysis, 
garment type 
Eml Y 
BETOS: 01 E Other OME 
DME Modifier: KF,RR 
B K0607 Replacement battery for automated 
external defibrillator, garment type 
only, each 
Eml Y 
BETOS: 01 E Other OME 
DME Modifier: KF,RR 
B K0608 Replacement garment for use with 
automated external defibrillator, each Eml Y 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: KF,NU,RR,UE 
B K0609 Replacement electrodes for use 
with automated external defibrillator, 
garment type only, each 
ED Y 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other OME 
DME Modifier: KF 
MISCELLANEOUS DME AND ACCESSORIES (K0669-K0746) 
B K0669 Wheelchair accessory, wheelchair seat 
or back cushion, does not meet specific 
code criteria or no written coding 
verification from OME POAC 
Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
B K0672 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
removable soft interface, all 
components, replacement only, each 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B K0730 Controlled dose inhalation drug 
delivery system 
EDY 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other DME 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0733 Power wheelchair accessory, 12 to 24 amp 
hour sealed lead acid battery, each 
(e.g., gel cell, absorbed glassmat) 
liLlIJ Y 
BETOS: 010 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: KE,KU,NU,RR,UE 
B K0738 Portable gaseous oxygen system, rental; 
home ;ompressor used to fill portable 
oxygen cylinders; includes portable 
containers, regulator, flowmeter, 
humidifier, cannula or mask, and 
tubing 
Elli Y 
BETOS: 01C Oxygen and supplies 
DME Modifier: QB,QF,RR 
B K0739 Repair or nonroutine service for durable 
medical equipment other than oxygen 
equipment requiring the skill of a 
technician, labor 
component, per 15 minutes 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other DME 
y 
d' Male only 
½ Female only 
0 Age 
A2 • 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
A· Y = APC Status indicator 
CJm MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
liLlIJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
343 
K0740- K0824 
li!jl K0740 Repair or nonroutine service for oxygen 
equipment requiring the skill of a technician, 
labor component, per 15 minutes 
E1 
BETOS: 01C 
Oxygen and supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B K0743 Suction pump, home model, portable, 
for use on wounds 
Y 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other OME 
B K0744 Absorptive wound dressing for use with 
suction pump, home model, portable, 
pad size 16 square inches or less 
A 
BETOS: 01E 
Other OME 
B K0745 Absorptive wound dressing for use with 
suction pump, home model, portable, pad 
size more than 16 square inches but less 
than or equal to 48 square inches 
A 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other OME 
B K0746 Absorptive wound dressing for use with 
suction pump, home model, portable, 
pad size greater than 48 square inches 
BETOS: 01E 
Other OME 
POWER OPERATED VEHICLES (K0800-K0812) 
B K0800 Power operated vehicle, group 1 
standard, patient weight capacity 
up to and including 300 pounds 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
B K0801 Power operated vehicle, group 1 heavy 
duty, patient weight capacity 301 to 
A 
EDY 
450 pounds 
ED Y 
BETOS: 010 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
B K0802 Power operated vehicle, group 1 very 
heavy duty, patient weight capacity 
451 to 600 pounds 
EDY 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
B K0806 Power operated vehicle, group 2 
standard, patient weight capacity 
up to and including 300 pounds 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
B K0807 Power operated vehicle, group 2 heavy 
duty, patient weight capacity 301 to 
-
450 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
B K0808 Power operated vehicle, group 2 
very heavy duty, patient weight capacity 
451 to 600 pounds 
EDY 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: NU,RR,UE 
Durable Medical Equipment (DME) (K0001-K1036) 
B K0812 Power operated vehicle, not otherwise 
classified 
Y 
BETOS: 010 Wheelchairs 
WHEELCHAIRS, POWER OPERATED (K0813-K0899) 
B K0813 Power wheelchair, group 1 standard, 
portable, sling/solid seat and back, patient 
weight capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0814 Power wheelchair, group 1 standard, 
portable, captains chair, patient weight 
capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0815 Power wheelchair, group 1 standard, 
sling/solid seat and back, patient weight 
capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0816 Power wheelchair, group 1 standard, 
captains chair, patient weight capacity 
up to and including 300 pounds 
EDY 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0820 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, 
portable, sling/solid seat/back, patient 
weight capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0821 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, 
portable, captains chair, patient 
weight capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: 01 0 Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0822 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, sling/ 
solid seat/back, patient weight capacity 
up to and including 300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0823 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, 
captains chair, patient weight capacity 
up to and including 300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D10 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0824 Power wheelchair, group 2 heavy duty, 
sling/solid seat/back, patient weight 
capacity 301 to 450 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!jJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
344 
CP is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (DME) (K0001-K1036) 
B K0825 Power wheelchair, group 2 heavy duty, 
captains chair, patient weight capacity 
301 to 450 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0826 Power wheelchair, group 2 very heavy duty, 
sling/solid seaUback, patient weight 
capacity 451 to 600 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0827 Power wheelchair, group 2 very heavy 
duty, captains chair, patient weight 
capacity 451 to 600 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D10 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0828 Power wheelchair, group 2 extra heavy 
duty, sling/solid seaUback, patient weight 
capacity 601 pounds or more 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0829 Power wheelchair, group 2 extra heavy 
duty, captains chair, patient weight 
601 pounds or more 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
l!J K0830 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, 
seat elevator, sling/solid seaUback, 
patient weight capacity up to and 
including 300 pounds 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
B K0831 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, seat 
elevator, captains chair, patient weight 
y 
capacity up to and including 300 pounds 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
B K0835 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, 
single power option, sling/solid seaU 
back, patient weight capacity up to and 
including 300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0836 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, 
single power option, captains chair, 
patient weight capacity up to and 
including 300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0837 Power wheelchair, group 2 heavy duty, 
single power option, sling/solid seaUback, 
patient weight capacity 301 
to 450 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D10 Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
K0825 - K0850 
B K0838 Power wheelchair, group 2 heavy duty, 
single power option, captains chair, 
patient weight capacity 301 to 
450 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0B39 Power wheelchair, group 2 very heavy 
duty, single power option, sling/solid seaU 
back, patient weight capacity 451 to 
600 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0840 Power wheelchair, group 2 extra heavy 
duty, single power option, sling/solid seaU 
back, patient weight capacity 601 pounds 
or more 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0841 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, 
multiple power option, sling/solid seaUback, 
patient weight capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0B42 Power wheelchair, group 2 standard, 
multiple power option, captains chair, 
patient weight capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0843 Power wheelchair, group 2 heavy duty, 
multiple power option, sling/solid seaU 
back, patient weight capacity 301 to 
450 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0848 Power wheelchair, group 3 standard, sling/ 
solid seaUback, patient weight capacity 
up to and including 300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0849 Power wheelchair, group 3 standard, 
captains chair, patient weight capacity 
up to and including 300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
B K0BS0 Power wheelchair, group 3 heavy duty, 
sling/solid seaUback, patient weight 
capacity 301 to 450 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: 010 
Wheelchairs 
OME Modifier: RR 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A- Y = APC Status indicator 
tllW MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
345 
K0851 - K0879 
Durable Medical Equipment (DME) (K0001-K1036) 
346 
B K0851 Power wheelchair, group 3 heavy duty, 
captains chair, patient weight capacity 
301 to 450 pounds 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0852 Power wheelchair, group 3 very heavy 
duty, sling/solid seat/back, patient weight 
capacity 451 to 600 pounds 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D10 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0853 Power wheelchair, group 3 very heavy 
duty, captains chair, patient weight 
capacity 451 to 600 pounds 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0854 Power wheelchair, group 3 extra heavy 
duty, sling/solid seat/back, patient weight 
capacity 601 pounds or more 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0855 Power wheelchair, group 3 extra heavy 
duty, captains chair, patient weight 
capacity 601 pounds or more 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0856 Power wheelchair, group 3 standard, 
single power option, sling/solid seat/ 
back, patient weight capacity up to and 
including 300 pounds 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0857 Power wheelchair, group 3 standard, single 
power option, captains chair, patient weight 
capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0858 Power wheelchair, group 3 heavy duty, 
single power option, sling/solid seat/back, 
patient weight 301 to 450 pounds 
EIJJ Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0859 Power wheelchair, group 3 heavy duty, 
single power option, captains chair, patient 
weight capacity 301 to 450 pounds 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
B K0860 Power wheelchair, group 3 very heavy duty, 
single power option, sling/solid seat/back, 
patient weight capacity 451 to 
600 pounds 
ED y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0861 Power wheelchair, group 3 standard, 
multiple power option, sling/solid seat/back, 
patient weight capacity up to and 
including 300 pounds 
Im Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0862 Power wheelchair, group 3 heavy duty, 
multiple power option, sling/solid seat/back, 
patient weight capacity 301 to 
450 pounds 
Eml Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0863 Power wheelchair, group 3 very heavy duty, 
multiple power option, sling/solid 
seat/back, patient weight capacity 
451 to 600 pounds 
EDY 
BETOS: D10 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0864 Power wheelchair, group 3 extra heavy duty, 
multiple power option, sling/solid 
seat/back, patient weight capacity 
601 pounds or more 
EDY 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
DME Modifier: RR 
El K0868 Power wheelchair, group 4 standard, sling/ 
solid seat/back, patient weight capacity 
up to and including 300 pounds 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
B K0869 Power wheelchair, group 4 standard, 
captains chair, patient weight capacity 
up to and including 300 pounds 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
B K0870 Power wheelchair, group 4 heavy duty, 
sling/solid seat/back, patient weight 
capacity 301 to 450 pounds 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
El K0871 Power wheelchair, group 4 very heavy 
duty, sling/solid seat/back, patient weight 
capacity 451 to 600 pounds 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
B K0877 Power wheelchair, group 4 standard, 
single power option, sling/solid seat/back, 
patient weight capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
B K0878 Power wheelchair, group 4 standard, single 
power option, captains chair, patient weight 
capacity up to and including 300 pounds 
y 
BETOS: D1 D 
Wheelchairs 
B K0879 Power wheelchair, group 4 heavy duty, single 
power option, sling/solid seat/back, patient 
weight capacity 301 to 450 pounds 
Y 
BETOS: D1D 
Wheelchairs 
• New code
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
ll!jJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Oink:" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Durable Medical Equipment (DME) (K0001-K1036) 
B K0880 Power wheelchair, group 4 very heavy duty, 
single power option, sling/solid seat/back, 
patient weight 451 to 600 pounds 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B K0884 Power wheelchair, group 4 standard, 
multiple power option, sling/solid seat/back, 
patient weight capacity up to and including 
300 pounds 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B K0885 Power wheelchair, group 4 standard, multiple 
power option, captains chair, patient weight 
capacity up to and including 300 pounds 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B K0886 Power wheelchair, group 4 heavy duty, 
multiple power option, sling/solid seat/back, 
patient weight capacity 301 to 450 pounds Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B K0890 Power wheelchair, group 5 pediatric, 
single power option, sling/solid seat/back, 
patient weight capacity up to and including 
125 pounds 
o Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
B K0891 Power wheelchair, group 5 pediatric, 
multiple power option, sling/solid seat/ 
back, patient weight capacity up to and 
including 125 pounds 
O Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
B K0898 Power wheelchair, not otherwise classified Y 
BETOS: D1D Wheelchairs 
B K0899 Power mobility device, not coded by DME 
PDAC or does not meet criteria 
Y 
BETOS: D1 D Wheelchairs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
CUSTOMIZED DME, OTHER THAN WHEELCHAIR (K0900) 
l!J K0900 Customized durable medical equipment, 
other than wheelchair 
Y 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
A E K1004 Low frequency ultrasonic diathermy 
treatment device for home use 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861 (n) 
B K1007 Bilateral hip, knee, ankle, foot device, 
powered, includes pelvic component, single 
or double upright(s), knee joints any type, 
with or without ankle joints any type, includes 
all components and accessories, motors, 
microprocessors, sensors 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Value not established 
y
K0880 - Kl 036 
B K1027 Oral device/appliance used to reduce 
upper airway collapsibility, without fixed 
mechanical hinge, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
Y 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Value not established 
B K1030 External recharging system for battery 
(internal) for use with implanted cardiac 
contractility modulation generator, 
replacement only 
Y 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Value not established 
B K1034 Provision of covid-19 test, nonprescription 
self-administered and self-collected use, 
fda approved, authorized or cleared, 
one test count 
O E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 03 
• B K1035 Molecular diagnostic test reader, 
nonprescription self-administered and 
self-collected use, fda approved, 
authorized or cleared 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• D K1036 Supplies and accessories (e.g., transducer) 
for low frequency ultrasonic diathermy 
treatment device, per month 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1861(n) 
cl' Male only 
ª Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC. Payment indicator 
Ei11J Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y =' APC Status indicator 
l1ilm MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
347 
NOTES 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
ORTHOTIC PROCEDURES AND SERVICES 
(L0112-L4631) 
CERVICAL ORTHOTICS (L0112-L0174) 
B L0112 Cranial cervical orthosis, congenital torticollis 
type, with or without soft interface material, 
adjustable range of motion joint, custom 
fabricated 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0113 Cranial cervical orthosis, torticollis type, with 
or without joint, with or without soft interface 
material, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B L0120 Cervical, flexible, non-adjustable, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf (foam 
collar) 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0130 Cervical, flexible, thermoplastic collar, 
molded to patient 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0140 Cervical, semi-rigid, adjustable (plastic 
collar) 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0150 Cervical, semi-rigid, adjustable molded chin 
cup (plastic collar with mandibular/occipital 
piece) 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0160 Cervical, semi-rigid, wire frame occipital/ 
mandibular support, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0170 Cervical, collar, molded to patient 
model 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0172 Cervical, collar, semi-rigid thermoplastic 
foam, two-piece, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0174 Cervical, collar, semi-rigid, thermoplastic 
foam, two piece with thoracic extension, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
CERVICAL ORTHOTICS MULTI-POST COLLAR (L0180-L0200) 
B L0180 Cervical, multiple post collar, occipital/ 
mandibular supports, adjustable 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0190 Cervical, multiple post collar, occipital/ 
mandibular supports, adjustable cervical 
bars (SOMI, Guilford, Taylor types) 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
LOl 12 - L0456 
B L0200 Cervical, multiple post collar, occipital/ 
mandibular supports, adjustable cervical 
bars, and thoracic extension 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
THORACIC RIB BELT (L0220) 
B L0220 Thoracic, rib belt, custom fabricated 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
THORACIC-LUMBAR-SACRAL ORTHOTICS (TLSO) 
(L0450-L0492), SEE ALSO LOW-PROFILE ADDITIONS, 
THORACIC-LUMBAR-SACRAL ORTHOTICS (L 1200-L 1290) 
B L0450 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
flexible, provides trunk support, upper 
thoracic region, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on the intervertebral 
disks with rigid stays or panel(s), 
includes shoulder straps and closures, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0452 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
flexible, provides trunk support, upper 
thoracic region, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on the intervertebral 
disks with rigid stays or panel(s), includes 
shoulder straps and closures, custom 
fabricated 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0454 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO) 
flexible, provides trunk support, extends 
from sacrococcygeal junction to above T-9 
vertebra, restricts gross trunk motion in 
the sagittal plane, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on the intervertebral 
disks with rigid stays or panel(s), includes 
shoulder straps and closures, prefabricated 
item that has been trimmed, bent, molded, 
assembled, or otherwise customized 
to fit a specific patient by an individual 
with expertise 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0455 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
flexible, provides trunk support, extends 
from sacrococcygeal junction to above T-9 
vertebra, restricts gross trunk motion in 
the sagittal plane, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on the intervertebral 
disks with rigid stays or panel(s), 
includes shoulder straps and closures, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L0456 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
flexible, provides trunk support, thoracic 
region, rigid posterior panel and soft anterior 
apron. extends from the sacrococcygeal 
junction and terminates just inferior to the 
scapular spine, restricts gross trunk motion 
in the sagittal plane, produces intracavitary 
cl' Male only 
¨ Female only 
O Age 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
C1m MIPS code
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
349 
E; 
...a 
...a 
N 
r-
0 
@ 
U1 
0\ 
0 
:a:, 
-I 
:::c 
A n 
"ti 
:a:, 
0 
n 
m 
C 
C: 
:a:, 
m "' 
:I> z 
C "' 
m 
:a:, < n 
m "' -... ... 
N 
0\ 
w ... 
-... 
... ... 
0 
..I -
V, 
w 
u 
a: 
w 
V, 
0 
z 
< 
V, 
w 
a: 
::, 
0 
w 
u 
0 
a: 
0. 
u 
§ 
::c 
l­a: 
0 
L0457 - L0469 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
closures, prefabricated, includes fitting 
350 
pressure to reduce load on the intervertebral 
disks, includes straps and closures, 
prefabricated item that has been trimmed, 
bent, molded, assembled, or otherwise 
customized to fit a specific patient by 
an individual with expertise 
EIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0457 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
flexible, provides trunk support, thoracic 
region, rigid posterior panel and soft anterior 
apron, extends from the sacrococcygeal 
junction and terminates just inferior to the 
scapular spine, restricts gross trunk motion 
in the sagittal plane, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on the intervertebral 
disks, includes straps and closures, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
EIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0458 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, modular segmented spinal 
system, two rigid plastic shells, posterior 
extends from the sacrococcygeal junction 
and terminates just inferior to the scapular 
spine, anterior extends from the symphysis 
pubis to the xiphoid, soft liner, restricts 
gross trunk motion in the sagittal, coronal, 
and transverse planes, lateral strength 
is provided by overlapping plastic and 
stabilizing closures, includes straps and 
closures, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
EIJJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0460 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, modular segmented spinal 
system, two rigid plastic shells, posterior 
extends from the sacrococcygeal junction 
and terminates just inferior to the scapular 
spine, anterior extends from the symphysis 
pubis to the sternal notch, soft liner, restricts 
gross trunk motion in the sagittal, coronal, 
and transverse planes, lateral strength 
is provided by overlapping plastic and 
stabilizing closures, includes straps and 
closures, prefabricated item that has been 
trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, or 
otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise EIJJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0462 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, modular segmented spinal 
system, three rigid plastic shells, posterior 
extends from the sacrococcygeal junction 
and terminates just inferior to the scapular 
spine, anterior extends from the symphysis 
pubis to the sternal notch, soft liner, restricts 
gross trunk motion in the sagittal, coronal, 
and transverse planes, lateral strength 
is provided by overlapping plastic and 
stabilizing closures, includes straps and 
and adjustment 
EIJJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0464 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, modular segmented spinal 
system, four rigid plastic shells, posterior 
extends from sacrococcygeal junction and 
terminates just inferior to scapular spine, 
anterior extends from symphysis pubis to the 
sternal notch, soft liner, restricts gross trunk 
motion in sagittal, coronal, and transverse 
planes, lateral strength is provided by 
overlapping plastic and stabilizing closures, 
includes straps and closures, prefabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
mIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0466 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
sagittal control, rigid posterior frame and 
flexible soft anterior apron with straps, 
closures and padding, restricts gross 
trunk motion in sagittal plane, produces 
intracavitary pressure to reduce load on 
intervertebral disks, prefabricated item that 
has been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise EIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0467 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
sagittal control, rigid posterior frame and 
flexible soft anterior apron with straps, 
closures and padding, restricts gross 
trunk motion in sagittal plane, produces 
intracavitary pressure to reduce load on 
intervertebral disks, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
EIJJ A
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0468 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
sagittal-coronal control, rigid posterior 
frame and flexible soft anterior apron with 
straps, closures and padding, extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction over scapulae, 
lateral strength provided by pelvic, thoracic, 
and lateral frame pieces, restricts gross 
trunk motion in sagittal, and coronal planes, 
produces intracavitary pressure to reduce 
load on intervertebral disks, prefabricated 
item that has been trimmed, bent, molded, 
assembled, or otherwise customized to 
fit a specific patient by an individual with 
expertise 
EIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0469 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
sagittal-coronal control, rigid posterior 
frame and flexible soft anterior apron with 
straps, closures and padding, extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction over scapulae, 
lateral strength provided by pelvic, thoracic, 
and lateral frame pieces, restricts gross 
trunk motion in sagittal and coronal planes, 
produces intracavitary pressure to reduce 
• Newcode
4 Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
E) Non-covered by Medicare statute
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
(!1 L0470 
(!1 L0472 
(!1 L0480 
(!1 L0482 
(!1 L0484 
load on intervertebral disks, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, rigid posterior frame and 
flexible soft anterior apron with straps, 
closures and padding extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction to scapula, lateral 
strength provided by pelvic, thoracic, and 
lateral frame pieces, rotational strength 
provided by subclavicular extensions, 
restricts gross trunk motion in sagittal, 
coronal, and transverse planes, provides 
intracavitary pressure to reduce load on 
the intervertebral disks, includes fitting and 
shaping the frame, prefabricated, includes 
fitting and adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, hyperextension, rigid 
anterior and lateral frame extends from 
symphysis pubis to sternal notch with two 
anterior components (one pubic and one 
sternal), posterior and lateral pads with 
straps and closures, limits spinal flexion, 
restricts gross trunk motion in sagittal, 
coronal, and transverse planes, includes 
fitting and shaping the frame, prefabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, one piece rigid plastic 
shell without interface liner, with multiple 
straps and closures, posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction and terminates 
just inferior to scapular spine, anterior 
extends from symphysis pubis to sternal 
notch, anterior or posterior opening, 
restricts gross trunk motion in sagittal, 
coronal, and transverse planes, includes a 
carved plaster or CAD-CAM model, custom 
fabricated 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, one piece rigid plastic 
shell with interface liner, multiple straps 
and closures, posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction and terminates 
just inferior to scapular spine, anterior 
extends from symphysis pubis to sternal 
notch, anterior or posterior opening, 
restricts gross trunk motion in sagittal, 
coronal, and transverse planes, includes a 
carved plaster or CAD-CAM model, custom 
fabricated 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, two piece rigid plastic 
shell without interface liner, with multiple 
straps and closures, posterior extends from 
L0470 - L0491 
sacrococcygeal junction and terminates just 
inferior to scapular spine, anterior extends 
from symphysis pubis to sternal notch, lateral 
strength is enhanced by overlapping plastic, 
restricts gross trunk motion in the sagittal, 
coronal, and transverse planes, includes a 
carved plaster or CAD-CAM model, custom 
fabricated 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
(!1 L0486 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, two piece rigid plastic 
shell with interface liner, multiple straps 
and closures, posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction and terminates just 
inferior to scapular spine, anterior extends 
from symphysis pubis to sternal notch, lateral 
strength is enhanced by overlapping plastic, 
restricts gross trunk motion in the sagittal, 
coronal, and transverse planes, includes a 
carved plaster or CAD-CAM model, custom 
fabricated 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
(!1 L0488 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
triplanar control, one piece rigid plastic 
shell with interface liner, multiple straps 
and closures, posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction and terminates 
just inferior to scapular spine, anterior 
extends from symphysis pubis to sternal 
notch, anterior or posterior opening, restricts 
gross trunk motion in sagittal, coronal, and 
transverse planes, prefabricated, includes 
fitting and adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
(!1 L0490 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
sagittal-coronal control, one piece rigid 
plastic shell, with overlapping reinforced 
anterior, with multiple straps and closures, 
posterior extends from sacrococcygeal 
junction and terminates at or before the T-9 
vertebra, anterior extends from symphysis 
pubis to xiphoid, anterior opening, restricts 
gross trunk motion in sagittal and coronal 
planes, prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
(!1 L0491 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
sagittal-coronal control, modular segmented 
spinal system, two rigid plastic shells, 
posterior extends from the sacrococcygeal 
junction and terminates just inferior to 
the scapular spine, anterior extends from 
the symphysis pubis to the xiphoid, soft 
liner, restricts gross trunk motion in the 
sagittal and coronal planes, lateral strength 
is provided by overlapping plastic and 
stabilizing closures, includes straps and 
closures, prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
lilIW MIPS code
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
351 
r-
0 
.,::., ..... 
0 
r-
0 
.,::., --
0 
:ICII 
-I :c 
 n .,, 
:ICII 
0 
n 
m 
0 
C: 
:ICII 
m "' ,. 
z 
0 "' 
m 
:ICII < n 
m "' 
? 
0 ... ... 
N 
0\ 
w ... -
-"' 
---"' 
w 
u 
a: 
w "' 
0 z 
cc "' 
w 
a: 
::::> 
0 w 
u 
0 
a: 
a. 
u 
§ 
::c 
l­a: 
0 
L0492 - L0627 
B L0492 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
sagittal-coronal control, modular segmented 
spinal system, three rigid plastic shells, 
posterior extends from the sacrococcygeal 
junction and terminates just inferior to 
the scapular spine, anterior extends from 
the symphysis pubis to the xiphoid, soft 
liner, restricts gross trunk motion in the 
sagittal and coronal planes, lateral strength 
is provided by overlapping plastic and 
stabilizing closures, includes straps and 
closures, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
liml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
SACRAL ORTHOTICS (L0621-L0624) 
B L0621 Sacroiliac orthosis (SO), flexible, provides 
pelvic-sacral support, reduces motion about 
the sacroiliac joint, includes straps, closures, 
may include pendulous abdomen design, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
liml A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0622 Sacroiliac orthosis (SO), flexible, provides 
pelvic-sacral support, reduces motion about 
the sacroiliac joint, includes straps, closures, 
may include pendulous abdomen design, 
custom fabricated 
liml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0623 Sacroiliac orthosis (SO), provides pelvic­
sacral support, with rigid or semi-rigid panels 
over the sacrum and abdomen, reduces 
motion about the sacroiliac joint, includes 
straps, closures, may include pendulous 
abdomen design, prefabricated, off-
the-shelf 
liml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0624 Sacroiliac orthosis (SO), provides pelvic­
sacral support, with rigid or semi-rigid panels 
placed over the sacrum and abdomen, 
reduces motion about the sacroiliac joint, 
includes straps, closures, may include 
pendulous abdomen design, custom 
fabricated 
ID A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LUMBAR ORTHOTICS (L0625-L0627), SEE ALSO LUMBAR 
ORTHOTICS SAGITTAL CONTROL (L0641, L0642) 
B L0625 Lumbar orthosis (LO), flexible, provides 
lumbar support, posterior extends from L-1 
to below L-5 vertebra, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on the intervertebral 
discs, includes straps, closures, may include 
pendulous abdomen design, shoulder straps, 
stays, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
liml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
B L0626 Lumbar orthosis (LO), sagittal control, with 
rigid posterior panel(s), posterior extends 
from L-1 to below L-5 vertebra, produces 
intracavitary pressure to reduce load on 
the intervertebral discs, includes straps, 
closures, may include padding, stays, 
shoulder straps, pendulous abdomen design, 
prefabricated item that has been trimmed, 
bent, molded, assembled, or otherwise 
customized to fit a specific patient by 
an individual with expertise 
liml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0627 Lumbar orthosis (LO), sagittal control, with 
rigid anterior and posterior panels, posterior 
extends from L-1 to below L-5 vertebra, 
produces intracavitary pressure to reduce 
load on the intervertebral discs, includes 
straps, closures, may include padding, 
shoulder straps, pendulous abdomen design, 
prefabricated item that has been trimmed, 
bent, molded, assembled, or otherwise 
customized to fit a specific patient by 
an individual with expertise 
liml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare 
0 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
352 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
LUMBAR-SACRAL ORTHOTICS (L0628-L0640), SEE ALSO 
LUMBAR-SACRAL ORTHOTICS SAGITTAL CONTROL 
(L0643-L0651) 
(! L0628 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), flexible, 
provides lumbo-sacral support, posterior 
extends from sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 
vertebra, produces intracavitary pressure 
(! L0629
(! L0630
to reduce load on the intervertebral discs, 
includes straps, closures, may include 
stays, shoulder straps, pendulous abdomen 
design, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
lll1JJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Lumbar-sacral orthosis 
Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), flexible, 
provides lumbo-sacral support, posterior 
extends from sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 
vertebra, produces intracavitary pressure 
to reduce load on the intervertebral discs, 
includes straps, closures, may include stays, 
shoulder straps, pendulous abdomen design, 
custom fabricated 
lll1JJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal 
control, with rigid posterior panel(s), posterior 
extends from sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 
vertebra, produces intracavitary pressure 
to reduce load on the intervertebral discs, 
includes straps, closures, may include 
padding, stays, shoulder straps, pendulous 
abdomen design, prefabricated item that has 
been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L0628 - L0635 
(! L0631 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal 
control, with rigid anterior and posterior 
panels, posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 vertebra, 
produces intracavitary pressure to reduce 
load on the intervertebral discs, includes 
straps, closures, may include padding, 
shoulder straps, pendulous abdomen design, 
prefabricated item that has been trimmed, 
bent, molded, assembled, or otherwise 
customized to fit a specific patient by 
an individual with expertise 
lll1JJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
(! L0632 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal 
control, with rigid anterior and posterior 
panels, posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 vertebra, 
produces intracavitary pressure to reduce 
load on the intervertebral discs, includes 
straps, closures, may include padding, 
shoulder straps, pendulous abdomen 
design, custom fabricated 
lll1JJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
(! L0633 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, with rigid posterior 
frame/panel(s), posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 vertebra, 
lateral strength provided by rigid lateral 
frame/panels, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on intervertebral 
discs, includes straps, closures, may include 
padding, stays, shoulder straps, pendulous 
abdomen design, prefabricated item that has 
been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise lll1JJ A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
(! L0634 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, with rigid posterior 
frame/panel(s), posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 vertebra, 
lateral strength provided by rigid lateral 
frame/panel(s), produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on intervertebral 
discs, includes straps, closures, may include 
padding, stays, shoulder straps, pendulous 
abdomen design, custom fabricated 
lll1JJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
(! L0635 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, lumbar flexion, rigid posterior 
frame/panel(s), lateral articulating design 
to flex the lumbar spine, posterior extends 
from sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 vertebra, 
lateral strength provided by rigid lateral 
frame/panel(s), produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on intervertebral 
discs, includes straps, closures, may include 
padding, anterior panel, pendulous abdomen 
design, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
lll1JJ A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d" Male on ly 
¢ Female on ly 
8 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
lll1JJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = AP C Status indicator
11Jm MIPScode
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
353 
r-
0 
CJ\ 
w 
u, 
0 
;::Q 
-t 
:c 
 
n .,, 
;::Q 
0 
n 
m 
C 
C: 
;::Q 
m "' 
> 
z 
C "' 
m 
;::Q < n 
m "' -
r-... ... 
N 
I r-
w ... -
'° 
tt'I '° 
0 
... '° 
--=t' 
I 
N ... ... 
0 
...I -"' 
w 
u 
a: 
w "' 
C z 
cC "' 
w 
a: 
=> 
C 
w 
u 
0 
a: 
Q. 
u 
j:: 
0 :c 
l­
a: 
0 
L0636 - L0649 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L01 l 2-L4631) 
354 
B L0636 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, lumbar flexion, rigid 
posterior frame/panels, lateral articulating 
design to flex the lumbar spine, posterior 
extends from sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 
vertebra, lateral strength provided by rigid 
lateral frame/panels, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on intervertebral 
discs, includes straps, closures, may include 
padding, anterior panel, pendulous abdomen 
design, custom fabricated 
llLlil A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0637 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, with rigid anterior and 
posterior frame/panels, posterior extends 
from sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 
vertebra, lateral strength provided by rigid 
lateral frame/panels, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on intervertebral 
discs, includes straps, closures, may 
include padding, shoulder straps, pendulous 
abdomen design, prefabricated item that has 
been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, or 
otherwise customized to fit a specific patient 
by an individual with expertise 
llLlil A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0638 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, with rigid anterior and 
posterior frame/panels. posterior extends 
from sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 
vertebra, lateral strength provided by rigid 
lateral frame/panels, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on intervertebral 
discs, includes straps, closures, may 
include padding, shoulder straps, pendulous 
abdomen design, custom fabricated 
llLlil A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0639 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, rigid shell(s)/panel(s), 
posterior extends from sacrococcygeal 
junction to T-9 vertebra, anterior extends 
from symphysis pubis to xyphoid, produces 
intracavitary pressure to reduce load on 
the intervertebral discs, overall strength 
is provided by overlapping rigid material 
and stabilizing closures, includes straps, 
closures, may include soft interface, 
pendulous abdomen design, prefabricated 
item that has been trimmed, bent, molded, 
assembled, or otherwise customized 
to fit a specific patient by an individual 
with expertise 
llLlil A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0640 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, rigid shell(s)/panel(s), 
posterior extends from sacrococcygeal 
junction to T-9 vertebra, anterior extends 
from symphysis pubis to xiphoid, produces 
intracavitary pressure to reduce load on 
the intervertebral discs, overall strength 
is provided by overlapping rigid material 
and stabilizing closures, includes straps, 
closures, may include soft interface, 
pendulous abdomen design, custom 
fabricated 
llLlil A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LUMBAR ORTHOTICS SAGITTAL CONTROL (L0641, L0642), 
SEE ALSO LUMBAR ORTHOTICS (L0625-L0627) 
B L0641 Lumbar orthosis (LO}, sagittal control, with 
rigid posterior panel(s}, posterior extends 
from L-1 to below L-5 vertebra, produces 
intracavitary pressure to reduce load on 
the intervertebral discs, includes straps, 
closures, may include padding, stays, 
shoulder straps, pendulous abdomen 
design, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
llLlil A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0642 Lumbar orthosis (LO}, sagittal control, with 
rigid anterior and posterior panels, posterior 
extends from L-1 to below L-5 vertebra, 
produces intracavitary pressure to reduce 
load on the intervertebral discs, includes 
straps, closures, may include padding, 
shoulder straps, pendulous abdomen 
design, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
llLlil A
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LUMBAR-SACRAL ORTHOTICS SAGITTAL CONTROL 
(L0643-L0651 ), SEE ALSO LUMBAR-SACRAL ORTHOTICS 
(L0628-L0640) 
B L0643 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO}, sagittal 
control, with rigid posterior panel( s }, posterior 
extends from sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 
vertebra, produces intracavitary pressure 
to reduce load on the intervertebral discs, 
includes straps, closures, may include 
padding, stays, shoulder straps, pendulous 
abdomen design, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
llLlil A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0648 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal 
control, with rigid anterior and posterior 
panels, posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 vertebra, 
produces intracavitary pressure to reduce 
load on the intervertebral discs, includes 
straps, closures, may include padding, 
shoulder straps, pendulous abdomen 
design, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
llLlil A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0649 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, with rigid posterior 
frame/panel(s), posterior extends from 
sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 vertebra, 
lateral strength provided by rigid lateral 
frame/panels, produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on intervertebral 
discs, includes straps, closures, may include 
• Newcode
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
B Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
padding, stays, shoulder straps, pendulous 
abdomen design, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0650 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, with rigid anterior and 
posterior frame/panel(s), posterior extends 
from sacrococcygeal junction to T-9 vertebra, 
lateral strength provided by rigid lateral 
frame/panel(s), produces intracavitary 
pressure to reduce load on intervertebral 
discs, includes straps, closures, may 
include padding, shoulder straps, pendulous 
abdomen design, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0651 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), sagittal­
coronal control, rigid shell(s)/panel(s), 
posterior extends from sacrococcygeal 
junction to T-9 vertebra, anterior extends 
from symphysis pubis to xyphoid, 
produces intracavitary pressure to reduce 
load on the intervertebral discs, overall 
strength is provided by overlapping 
rigid material and stabilizing closures, 
includes straps, closures, may include soft 
interface, pendulous abdomen design, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
_ 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
CERVICAL-THORACIC-LUMBAR-SACRAL ORTHOTICS 
(L0700, L0710) 
B L0700 Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral-orthoses 
(CTLSO), anterior-posterior-lateral control, 
molded to patient model 
(Minerva type) 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0710 Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral-orthoses 
( CTLSO ), anterior -posterior-lateral-control, 
molded to patient model, with interface 
material (Minerva type) 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
CERVICAL HALO PROCEDURES (L0810-L0861) 
B L0810 Halo procedure, cervical halo 
incorporated into jacket vest 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0820 Halo procedure, cervical halo 
incorporated into plaster body jacket 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0830 Halo procedure, cervical halo incorporated 
into Milwaukee type orthosis 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0859 Addition to halo procedure, magnetic 
resonance image compatible systems, 
rings and pins, any material 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L0650 - L 1020 
B L0861 Addition to halo procedure, replacement 
liner/interface material 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ACCESSORIES FOR SPINAL ORTHOTICS (L0970-L0999) 
B L0970 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
corset front 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0972 Lumbar-sacral orthosis (LSO), corset 
front 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0974 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis (TLSO), 
full corset 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0976 Lumbar-sacral orthotic (LSO), 
full corset 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0978 Axillary crutch extension 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0980 Peroneal straps, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf, pair 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0982 Stocking supporter grips, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf, set of four (4) 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0984 Protective body sock, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf, each 
Elli A
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L0999 Addition to spinal orthosis, not otherwise 
specified 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
SCOLIOSIS ORTHOTIC DEVICES (L 1000-L 1120) 
B L 1000 Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
(CTLSO) (Milwaukee), inclusive of furnishing 
initial orthosis, including model 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1001 Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
(CTLSO), immobilizer, infant size, 
prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1005 Tension based scoliosis orthosis and 
accessory pads, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
B L 101 O Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
axilla sling 
Elli A
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1020 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
kyphosis pad 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
cl Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC. Payment indicator 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
t!m MIPS code 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
355 
r-
0 
0\ 
UI 
0 
r­... 
0 
N 
0 
0 
:a 
-t ::c 
n .,, 
:a 
0 
n 
m 
0 
c::: 
:a 
m "' 
J> z 
0 "' 
m 
 n 
m -... ... ..., 
w ... 
.... 
...I 
an 
N 
0 .... 
...I 
-... 
... ... 
0 ... -
VI 
w 
V 
 
w 
VI 
Q z 
cc 
VI 
w 
CIC 
::, 
Q 
w 
V 
0 
CIC a. 
V 
§ 
:c 
l­
a:: 
0 
-
L 1025 - L 1499 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
356 
B L 1025 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
kyphosis pad, floating 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1030 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
lumbar bolster pad 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1040 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
lumbar or lumbar rib pad 
ElII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1050 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
sternal pad 
ElII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1060 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
thoracic pad 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1070 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
trapezius sling 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1080 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
outrigger 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1085 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar­
sacral orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis 
orthosis, outrigger, bilateral with vertical 
extensions 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1090 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
lumbar sling 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1100 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
ring flange, plastic or leather 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1110 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO) or scoliosis orthosis, 
ring flange, plastic or leather, molded 
to patient model 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1120 Addition to Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (CTLSO), scoliosis orthosis, 
cover for upright, each 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LOW-PROFILE ADDITIONS, THORACIC-LUMBAR-SACRAL 
ORTHOTICS (L 1200-L 1290), SEE ALSO THORACIC-LUMBAR· 
SACRAL (TLSO) ORTHOTICS (L0450-L0492) 
B L 1200 Thoracic-lumbar-sacral-orthosis 
(TLSO), inclusive of furnishing initial 
orthosis only 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1210 Addition to Thoracic-lumbar-sacral-orthosis 
(TLSO), (low profile), lateral thoracic 
extension 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1220 Addition to Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
(TLSO), (low profile), anterior thoracic 
extension 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1230 Addition to Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
(TLSO), (low profile), Milwaukee type 
superstructure 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1240 Addition to Thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (TLSO), (low profile), lumbar 
derotation pad 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1250 Addition to Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
(TLSO), (low profile), anterior a sis pad llLlll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1260 Addition to Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
(TLSO), (low profile), anterior thoracic 
derotation pad 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1270 Addition to Thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
(TLSO), (low profile), abdominal pad 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1280 Addition to Thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (TLSO), (low profile), rib gusset 
(elastic), each 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1290 Addition to Thoracic-lumbar-sacral 
orthosis (TLSO), (low profile), lateral 
trochanteric pad 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
OTHER SCOLIOSIS AND SPINAL ORTHOTICS AND 
PROCEDURES (L1300-L1499) 
B L 1300 Other scoliosis procedure, body jacket 
molded to patient model 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1310 Other scoliosis procedure, post-operative 
body jacket 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L1499 Spinal orthosis, not otherwise specified 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!J Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
HIP ORTHOTICS (L 1600-L 1690) 
B L 1600 Hip orthosis, abduction control of hip joints, 
flexible, Frejka type with cover, prefabricated 
item that has been trimmed, bent, molded, 
assembled, or otherwise customized to 
fit a specific patient by an individual with 
expertise 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 161 O Hip orthosis, abduction control of hip joints, 
flexible, (Frejka cover only), prefabricated 
item that has been trimmed, bent, molded, 
assembled, or otherwise customized to 
fit a specific patient by an individual with 
expertise 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1620 Hip orthosis, abduction control of hip joints, 
flexible, (Pavlik harness), prefabricated 
item that has been trimmed, bent, molded, 
assembled, or otherwise customized to 
fit a specific patient by an individual with 
expertise 
llllII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1630 Hip orthosis (HO), abduction control of 
hip joints, semi-flexible (Von Rosen type), 
custom-fabricated 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1640 Hip orthosis (HO), abduction control of 
hip joints, static, pelvic band or spreader 
bar, thigh cuffs, custom-fabricated 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1650 Hip orthosis (HO), abduction control 
B L1652 
B L1660 
B L1680 
• B L1681
of hip joints, static, adjustable, (llfled 
type), prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Hip orthosis (HO), bilateral thigh cuffs with 
adjustable abductor spreader bar, adult 
size, prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment, any type 
lillII O A 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Hip orthosis (HO), abduction control of 
hip joints, static, plastic, prefabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Hip orthosis (HO), abduction control of hip 
joints, dynamic, pelvic control, adjustable 
hip motion control, thigh cuffs (Rancho 
hip action type), custom fabricated 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Hip orthosis, bilateral hip joints and 
thigh cuffs, adjustable flexion, extension, 
abduction control of hip joint, postoperative 
hip abduction type, prefabricated item that 
has been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise lillII A 
BET0S: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L 1600 - L1830 
B L 1685 Hip orthosis (HO), abduction control of hip 
joint, postoperative hip abduction type, 
custom fabricated 
llllII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1686 Hip orthosis (HO), abduction control of 
hip joint, postoperative hip abduction 
type, prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1690 Combination, bilateral, lumbo-sacral, hip, 
femur orthosis providing adduction and 
internal rotation control, prefabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LEGG PERTH ES ORTHOTICS (L 1700-L 1755) 
B L 1700 Legg perthes orthosis, (Toronto type), 
custom-fabricated 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1710 Legg perthes orthosis, (Newington type), 
custom fabricated 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1720 Legg perthes orthosis, trilateral, 
(Tachdijan type), custom-fabricated 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1730 Legg perthes orthosis, (Scottish Rite 
type), custom-fabricated 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1755 Legg perthes orthosis, (Patten bottom 
type), custom-fabricated 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
KNEE ORTHOTICS (L 1810-L 1860) 
B L 181 O Knee orthosis (KO), elastic with joints, 
prefabricated item that has been trimmed, 
bent, molded, assembled, or otherwise 
customized to fit a specific patient by an 
individual with expertise 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1812 Knee orthosis (KO), elastic with joints, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1820 Knee orthosis (KO), elastic with condylar 
pads and joints, with or without patellar 
control, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
lillII A 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1830 Knee orthosis (KO), immobilizer, 
canvas longitudinal, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
lillII A 
BET0S: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d" Male only 
S?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
lillII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
mm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
357 
r­
...a 
0\ 
0 
0 
r­
...a 
00 
w 
0 
0 
:a:, 
-I ::c s n .,, 
:a 
0 
n 
m 
0 
C: 
:a:, 
m "' 
:,::,, z 
0 "' 
m :a 
n 
m 
? 
0 ... ... 
w ... -
C) '° 
00 ... 
...I ... 
,w, 
00 ... 
...I 
-... 
N ... ... 
0 .... "' 
w 
u 
a: 
w "' 
Q z 
c:c "' 
w 
a: => 
Q 
w u 
0 
a: 
0. u 
 
:c 
t­
a: 
0 
L1831 - L1860 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631} 
358 
Knee orthosis 
B L 1831 Knee orthosis (KO), locking knee joint(s), 
positional orthosis, prefabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1832 Knee orthosis (KO), adjustable knee joints 
(unicentric or polycentric), positional orthosis, 
rigid support, prefabricated item that has 
been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1833 Knee orthosis (KO), adjustable knee joints 
(unicentric or polycentric), positional orthosis, 
rigid support, prefabricated, 
off-the shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1834 Knee orthosis (KO), without knee joint, 
rigid, custom-fabricated 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1836 Knee orthosis (KO), rigid, without 
joint(s), includes soft interface material, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1840 Knee orthosis (KO), derotation, medial­
lateral, anterior cruciate ligament, 
custom fabricated 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1843 Knee orthosis (KO), single upright, thigh and 
calf, with adjustable flexion and extension 
joint (unicentric or polycentric), medial-lateral 
and rotation control, with or without varus/ 
valgus adjustment, prefabricated item that 
has been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L1844 Knee orthosis (KO), single upright, thigh and 
calf, with adjustable flexion and extension 
joint (unicentric or polycentric), medial-lateral 
and rotation control, with or without varus/ 
valgus adjustment, custom fabricated ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1845 Knee orthosis (KO), double upright, thigh and 
calf, with adjustable flexion and extension 
joint (unicentric or polycentric), medial-lateral 
and rotation control, with or without varus/ 
valgus adjustment, prefabricated item that 
has been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise ED A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1846 Knee orthosis (KO), double upright, thigh and 
calf, with adjustable flexion and extension 
joint (unicentric or polycentric), medial-lateral 
and rotation control, with or without varus/ 
valgus adjustment, custom fabricated ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1847 Knee orthosis (KO), double upright with 
adjustable joint, with inflatable air support 
chamber(s), prefabricated item that has been 
trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1848 Knee orthosis (KO), double upright with 
adjustable joint, with inflatable air support 
chamber(s), prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1850 Knee orthosis (KO), swedish type, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1851 Knee orthosis (ko), single upright, thigh and 
calf, with adjustable flexion and extension 
joint (unicentric or polycentric), medial-lateral 
and rotation control, with or without varus/ 
valgus adjustment, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1852 Knee orthosis (ko), double upright, thigh and 
calf, with adjustable flexion and extension 
joint (unicentric or polycentric), medial-lateral 
and rotation control, with or without varus/ 
valgus adjustment, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1860 Knee orthosis (KO), modification of 
supracondylar prosthetic socket, 
custom-fabricated (SK) 
EDA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode
A Revised code ·G Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
ANKLE-FOOT ORTHOTICS (L 1900-L 1990), SEE ALSO ANKLE­
FOOT ORTHOTICS (L2106-L2116) 
B L 1900 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), spring wire, 
dorsiflexion assist calf band, custom-
fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1902 Ankle orthosis, ankle gauntlet or similar, 
with or without joints, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
lml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1904 Ankle orthosis, ankle gauntlet or similar, 
with or without joints, custom 
fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1906 Ankle foot orthosis, multiligamentous ankle 
support, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1907 Ankle orthosis, supramalleolar with straps, 
with or without interface/pads, custom 
fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1910 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), posterior, 
single bar, clasp attachment to shoe 
counter, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Ankle-foot orthosis 
L 1900- L1990 
B L 1920 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), single upright 
with static or adjustable stop (phelps or 
perlstein type), custom-fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1930 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), plastic or other 
material, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
lml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1932 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), rigid anterior 
tibial section, total carbon fiber or equal 
material, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
lml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1940 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), plastic or other 
material, custom-fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1945 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), plastic, rigid 
anterior tibial section (floor reaction), 
custom-fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1950 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), spiral, (institute 
of rehabilitative medicine type), plastic, 
custom-fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1951 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), spiral, (institute 
of rehabilitative medicine type), plastic 
or other material, prefabricated, includes 
fitting and adjustment 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1960 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), posterior solid 
ankle, plastic, custom-fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1970 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), plastic with 
ankle joint, custom-fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1971 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), plastic or other 
material with ankle joint, prefabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1980 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), single upright 
free plantar dorsiflexion, solid stirrup, calf 
band/cuff (single bar 'BK' orthosis). 
custom-fabricated 
lml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L 1990 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), double upright 
free plantar dorsiflexion, solid stirrup, calf 
band/cuff ( double bar 'BK' orthosis ), 
custom-fabricated 
llLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
cl' Maleonly 
ff Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC A pproved P roc edure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Paym ent indicator 
lml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
Ll!W MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
359 
r-
....a '° 
0 
r­
....a '° '° 
0 
0 
:a 
-I 
:J: 
 n .,, 
:a 
0 
n 
m 
C 
C 
:a 
m "' 
:I> z 
C 
Ill 
m 
:a < n 
m "' 
g ... ... ..., 
I ! ... -
-... 
_, 
N ... ...
0 _, -"' 
w 
u 
a:: 
w "' 
0 
z 
c( "' 
w 
a:: 
::) 
0 
w 
u 
0 
a:: 
0. 
u 
::c 
l­a:: 
0 
L2000 - L2114 
KNEE-ANKLE-FOOT ORTHOTICS {L2000-L2038), SEE ALSO 
KNEE-ANKLE-FOOT ORTHOTICS {L2126-L2136) 
l3I L2000 
l3I L2005 
l3I L2006 
l3I L2010 
131 L2020 
l3I L2030 
Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), single 
upright, free knee, free ankle, solid stirrup, 
thigh and calf bands/cuffs (single bar 
'AK' orthosis), custom-fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), any 
material, single or double upright, stance 
control, automatic lock and swing phase 
release, any type activation, includes ankle 
joint, any type, custom fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Knee ankle foot device, any material, single 
or double upright, swing and stance phase 
microprocessor control with adjustability, 
includes all components (e.g., sensors, 
batteries, charger), any type activation, 
with or without ankle joint(s), custom 
fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), single 
upright, free ankle, solid stirrup, thigh and 
calf bands/cuffs (single bar 'AK' orthosis), 
without knee joint, custom-fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO). double 
upright, free ankle, solid stirrup, thigh 
and calf bands/cuffs (double bar 'AK' 
orthosis ), custom-fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), double 
upright, free ankle, solid stirrup, thigh and 
calf bands/cuffs, (double bar 'AK' orthosis), 
without knee joint, custom fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2034 Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), full 
plastic, single upright, with or without free 
motion knee, medial lateral rotation control, 
with or without free motion ankle, custom 
fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2035 Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), full 
plastic, static (pediatric size), without free 
motion ankle, prefabricated, includes 
fitting and adjustment 
liLl11 0 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2036 Knee ankle foot orthosis, full plastic, 
double upright, with or without free motion 
knee, with or without free motion ankle, 
custom fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2037 Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), full plastic, 
single upright, with or without free motion 
knee, with or without free motion ankle, 
custom fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (LO 112-L4631) 
B L2038 Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), full plastic, 
with or without free motion knee, 
multi-axis ankle, custom fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
HIP-KNEE-ANKLE-FOOT ORTHOTICS (L2040-L2090) 
B L2040 Hip knee ankle foot orthosis (HKAFO), 
torsion control, bilateral rotation straps, 
pelvic band/belt, custom fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2050 Hip knee ankle foot orthosis (HKAFO), 
torsion control, bilateral torsion cables, 
hip joint, pelvic band/belt, custom-
fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2060 Hip knee ankle foot orthosis (HKAFO), 
torsion control, bilateral torsion cables, 
ball bearing hip joint, pelvic band/ belt, 
· custom-fabricated
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2070 Hip knee ankle foot orthosis (HKAFO), 
torsion control, unilateral rotation straps, 
pelvic band/belt, custom fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2080 Hip knee ankle foot orthosis (HKAFO), 
torsion control, unilateral torsion cable, 
hip joint, pelvic band/belt, custom-
fabricated 
lillIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2090 Hip knee ankle foot orthosis (HKAFO), 
torsion control, unilateral torsion cable, 
ball bearing hip joint, pelvic band/ belt, 
custom-fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ANKLE-FOOT ORTHOTICS (L2106-L2116), SEE ALSO ANKLE­
FOOT ORTHOTICS (L1900-L1990) 
B L2106 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), fracture 
orthosis, tibial fracture cast orthosis, 
thermoplastic type casting material, 
custom-fabricated 
liLl11 A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2108 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), fracture 
orthosis, tibial fracture cast orthosis, 
custom-fabricated 
lillIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2112 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), fracture orthosis, 
tibial fracture orthosis, soft, prefabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
ID A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2114 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), fracture 
orthosis, tibial fracture orthosis, 
semi-rigid, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding CliniC-
360 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
B L2116 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), fracture orthosis, 
tibial fracture orthosis, rigid, prefabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
KNEE-ANKLE-FOOT ORTHOTICS (L2126-L2136), SEE ALSO 
KNEE-ANKLE-FOOT ORTHOTICS (L2000-L2038) 
B L2126 Knee ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), fracture 
orthosis, femoral fracture cast orthosis, 
thermoplastic type casting material, 
custom-fabricated 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2128 Knee ankle foot orthosis(KAFO), fracture 
orthosis, femoral fracture cast orthosis, 
custom-fabricated 
mII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2132 Knee ankle foot orthosis(KAFO), fracture 
orthosis, femoral fracture cast orthosis, 
soft, prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2134 Knee ankle foot orthosis(KAFO), fracture 
orthosis, femoral fracture cast orthosis, 
semi-rigid, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
mII A 
BET OS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2136 Knee ankle foot orthosis(KAFO), fracture 
orthosis, femoral fracture cast orthosis, 
rigid, prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ADDITIONS, LOWER EXTREMITY, FRACTURE ORTHOTICS 
(L2180-L2192) 
B L2180 Addition to lower extremity fracture orthosis, 
plastic shoe insert with ankle joints 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2182 Addition to lower extremity fracture 
orthosis, drop lock knee joint 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2184 Addition to lower extremity fracture orthosis, 
limited motion knee joint 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2·186 Addition to lower extremity fracture 
orthosis, adjustable motion knee joint, 
lerman type 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2188 Addition to lower extremity fracture 
orthosis, quadrilateral brim 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2190 Addition to lower extremity fracture 
orthosis, waist belt 
mII A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L2116 - L2300 
B L2192 Addition to lower extremity fracture orthosis, 
hip joint, pelvic band, thigh flange, and 
pelvic belt 
mII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ADDITIONS, LOWER EXTREMITY ORTHOTICS (L2200-L2397) 
B L2200 Addition to lower extremity, limited 
ankle motion, each joint 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2210 Addition to lower extremity, dorsiflexion 
assist (plantar flexion resist), each 
joint 
mIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2220 Addition to lower extremity, dorsiflexion 
and plantar flexion assisUresist, each 
joint 
mIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2230 Addition to lower extremity, split flat caliper 
stirrups and plate attachment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2232 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
rocker bottom for total contact ankle foot 
orthosis (AFO), for custom fabricated 
orthosis only 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2240 Addition to lower extremity, round caliper 
and plate attachment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2250 Addition to lower extremity, foot plate, 
molded to patient model, stirrup 
attachment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2260 Addition to lower extremity, reinforced 
solid stirrup (Scott-Craig type) 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2265 Addition to lower extremity, long tongue 
stirrup 
mIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2270 Addition to lower extremity, varus/valgus 
correction ('T') strap, padded/lined or 
malleolus pad 
mII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2275 Addition to lower extremity, varus/valgus 
correction, plastic modification, padded/ 
lined 
mIIA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2280 Addition to lower extremity, molded 
inner boot 
mII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2300 Addition to lower extremity, abduction 
bar (bilateral hip involvement), jointed, 
adjustable 
mII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
cl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
lillW MIPS code 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
mII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
361 
r­
N 
w 
0 
0 
0 
  
-t 
:I: s n 
"ti 
  
0 
n 
m 
C 
C 
  
m 
VI 
):Ii z 
C 
VI 
m 
  < n 
m 
VI 
? 
0 ... ... 
11,J 
I r­
.1:1, 
0\ 
w ... 
0 
U\ 
U\ 
N 
..J 
0 
If"" 
rw, 
N 
..J 
... '° 
q' 
... ... 
0 
..I 
VI 
w 
u 
a: 
w 
VI 
Q z 
<C 
VI 
w 
a: 
Û 
Q 
w 
u 
0 
a: 
a.. 
u 
::c .... 
a: 
0 
L2310 - L2550 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631 l 
362 
B L2310 Addition to lower extremity, abduction 
bar-straight 
ml A 
B L2320 
B L2330 
l!J L2335 
l!J L2340 
l!J L2350 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to lower extremity, non-
molded lacer, for custom fabricated 
orthosis only 
mlA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to lower extremity, lacer molded 
to patient model, for custom fabricated 
orthosis only 
ml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to lower extremity, anterior 
swing band 
mlA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to lower extremity, pre-tibial 
shell, molded to patient model 
ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to lower extremity, prosthetic type, 
(BK) socket, molded to patient model, 
(used for 'PTB' 'AFO' orthoses) 
ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2360 Addition to lower extremity, extended 
steel shank 
ml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2370 Addition to lower extremity, Patten 
bottom 
l!J L2375 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to lower extremity, torsion control, 
ankle joint and half solid stirrup 
ml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2380 Addition to lower extremity, torsion 
control, straight knee joint, each joint 
ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2385 Addition to lower extremity, straight knee 
joint, heavy duty, each joint 
ml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2387 Addition to lower extremity, polycentric 
knee joint, for custom fabricated knee 
ankle foot orthosis (KAFO), each joint ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2390 Addition to lower extremity, offset knee 
joint, each joint 
ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2395 Addition to lower extremity, offset knee 
joint, heavy duty, each joint 
ml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2397 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
suspension sleeve 
ml A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ORTHOTIC ADDITIONS TO KNEE JOINTS (L2405-L2492) 
B L2405 Addition to knee joint, drop lock, each ml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L2415 
l!J L2425 
l!J L2430 
Addition to knee lock with integrated 
release mechanism ( bail, cable, or equal), 
any material, each joint 
ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to knee joint, disc or dial lock for 
adjustable knee flexion, each joint 
ml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to knee joint, ratchet lock for 
active and progressive knee extension, 
each joint 
ml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2492 Addition to knee joint, lift loop for drop 
mlA 
lock ring 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ADDITIONS, WEIGHT-BEARING, LOWER EXTREMITIES 
(L2500-L2550) 
l!) L2500 
B L2510 
Addition to lower extremity, thigh/ 
weight bearing, gluteal/ ischial weight 
bearing, ring 
ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to lower extremity. thigh/weight 
bearing, quadri- lateral brim, molded to 
patient model 
ml A 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2520 Addition to lower extremity, thigh/ 
weight bearing, quadri- lateral brim, 
custom fitted 
ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2525 Addition to lower extremity, thigh/weight 
bearing, ischial containmenUnarrow 
M-L brim molded to patient model 
ml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2526 Addition to lower extremity, thigh/weight 
bearing, ischial containmenUnarrow 
M-L brim, custom fitted
ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
B L2530 Addition to lower extremity, thigh-weight 
bearing, lacer, non-molded 
ml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2540 Addition to lower extremity, thigh/ 
weight bearing, lacer, molded to patient 
model 
mlA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2550 Addition to lower extremity. thigh/weight 
bearing, high roll cuff 
ml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode 
Ü Revised code a Carrier judgment 
B Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
B Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPI- is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
ADDITIONS, PELVIC AND/OR THORACIC CONTROL, LOWER 
EXTREMITIES (L2570-L2680) 
B L2570 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic 
control, hip joint, Clevis type two position 
joint, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2580 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic 
control, pelvic sling 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2600 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic control, 
hip joint, Clevis type, or thrust bearing, 
free, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2610 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic control, 
hip joint, Clevis type or thrust bearing, 
lock, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2620 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic control, 
hip joint, heavy duty, ,each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2622 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic control, 
hip joint, adjustable flexion, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2624 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic control, 
hip joint, adjustahle flexion, extension, 
abduction control, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2627 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic 
control, plastic, molded to patient model, 
reciprocating hip joint and cables 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2628 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic control, 
metal frame, reciprocating hip joint and 
cables 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2630 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic 
control, band and belt, unilateral 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2640 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic 
control, band and belt, bilateral 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2650 Addition to lower extremity, pelvic and 
thoracic control, gluteal pad, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2660 Addition to lower extremity, thoracic 
control, thoracic band 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2670 Addition to lower extremity, thoracic 
control, paraspinal uprights 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2680 Addition to lower extremity, thoracic 
control, lateral support uprights 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L2570 - L2850 
OTHER LOWER EXTREMITY ADDITIONS (L2750-L2999) 
B L2750 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
plating chrome or nickel, per bar 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2755 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
high strength, lightweight material, all 
hybrid lamination/prepreg composite, 
per segment, for custom fabricated 
orthosis only 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2760 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
extension, per extension, per bar 
(for lineal adjustment for growth) 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2768 Orthotic side bar disconnect device, 
per bar 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
B L2780 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
non-corrosive finish, per bar 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2785 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
drop lock retainer, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2795 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
knee control, full kneecap 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2800 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
knee control, knee cap, medial or lateral 
pull, for use with custom fabricated 
orthosis only 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2810 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
knee control, condylar pad 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2820 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
soft interface for molded plastic, below 
knee section 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2830 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
soft interface for molded plastic, above 
knee section 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2840 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, tibial 
length sock, fracture or equal, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L2850 Addition to lower extremity orthosis, 
femoral length sock, fracture or 
equal, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d" Male only 
¥ Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC. Payment indicator
ED Paid under the DMEfeeschedule 
A -Y = APC Status i ndicator 
llJm MIPScode 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
363 
r­
N 
U1 ..... 
0 
r­
N 
00 
U1 
0 
0 
0 ... 
I ... '° 
00 
N .... 
... 
... ... 
C) .... --
Ill 
LU u 
a: 
LU 
Ill 
C z 
< 
Ill 
LU 
a: 
::, 
C 
LU u 
0 
a: 
a. 
u 
§ 
:c 
l­a: 
0 
L2861 - L3100 
0 L2861 Addition to lower extremity joint, knee or 
ankle, concentric adjustable torsion style 
mechanism for custom fabricated orthotics 
only, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B L2999 Lower extremity orthoses, not otherwise 
specified 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
FOOT INSERTS, REMOVABLE (L3000-L3031) 
I!) L3000 Foot, insert, removable, molded to 
patient model, 'UCB' type, Berkeley 
Shell, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3001 Foot, insert, removable, molded to 
patient model, Spence, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3002 Foot, insert, removable, molded 
to patient model, Plastazote or 
equal, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3003 Foot, insert, removable, molded to 
patient model, silicone gel, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3010 Foot, insert, removable, molded 
to patient model, longitudinal arch 
support, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3020 Foot, insert, removable, molded to 
patient model, longitudinal/ metatarsal 
support, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3030 Foot, insert, removable, formed to 
patient foot, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B L3031 Foot, insert/plate, removable, addition to 
lower extremity orthosis, high strength, 
lightweight material, all hybrid lamination/ 
prepreg composite, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
FOOT ARCH SUPPORTS (L3040-L3090) 
I!) L3040 Foot, arch support, removable, 
premolded, longitudinal, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Arch support 
I!) L3050 Foot, arch support, removable, 
premolded, metatarsal, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3060 Foot, arch support, removable, 
premolded, longitudinal/ 
metatarsal, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3070 Foot, arch support, non-removable 
attached to shoe, longitudinal, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3080 Foot, arch support, non-removable 
attached to shoe, metatarsal, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!) L3090 Foot, arch support, non-removable 
attached to shoe, longitudinal/ 
metatarsal, each 
liLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
REPOSITIONING FOOT ORTHOTICS (L3100-L3170) 
I!) L3100 Hallux-valgus night dynamic splint, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
• Revised code 
l!l Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
364 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
Hallux va/gus splint 
l!J L3140 Foot, abduction rotation bar, including 
shoes 
lmA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3150 Foot, abduction rotatation bar, without 
shoes 
lmA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
8 L3160 Foot, adjustable shoe-styled positioning 
device 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A 
• 8 L3161 Foot, adductus positioning device, adjustable 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
l!J L3170 Foot, plastic, silicone or equal, heel stabilizer, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf, each 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ORTHOPEDIC SHOES (L3201-L3207) 
l!J L3201 Orthopedic shoe, Oxford with supinator or 
pronator, infant 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3202 Orthopedic shoe, Oxford with supinator or 
pronator, child 
O A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3203 Orthopedic shoe, Oxford with supinator or 
pronator, junior 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3204 Orthopedic shoe, hightop with supinator or 
pronator, infant 
A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
L3140- L3219 
l!J L3206 Orthopedic shoe, hightop with supinator or 
pronator, child 
o A
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3207 Orthopedic shoe, hightop with supinator or 
pronator, junior 
A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
SURGICAL BOOTS (L3208-L3211) 
l!J L3208 Surgical boot, each, infant 
O A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3209 Surgical boot, each, child 
O A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3211 Surgical boot, each, junior 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BENESCH BOOTS (L3212-L3214) 
l!J L3212 Benesch boot, pair, infant 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3213 Benesch boot, pair, child 
o A
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3214 Benesch boot, pair, junior 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
OTHER ORTHOPEDIC FOOTWEAR (L3215-L3265) 
D L3215 Orthopedic footwear, ladies shoe, 
Oxford, each 
 E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A8 
D L3216 Orthopedic footwear, ladies shoe, 
depth inlay, each 
 E1 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A8 
D L3217 Orthopedic footwear, ladies shoe, 
hightop, depth inlay, each 
 E1 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A8 
D L3219 Orthopedic footwear, mens shoe, 
Oxford, each 
cl' E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A8 
cl' Male only 
 Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
lillm MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
365 
r 
w 
..a 
.1:11, 
0 
r 
w 
N 
..a '° 
0 
::ti 
-I ::c 
 n 
-a 
::ti 
0 n 
m 
0 
C: 
::ti 
m "' 
)lo z 
0 "' 
m 
::ti < n "' 
... ... 
r­

0\ 
w ... -
0 
I"'" ... 
I\'\ 
...I 
I 
I"'" 
N 
N 
I\'\ 
...I 
... 
l"l'I '° 
-=I' 
... ... 
0 
..I "' 
w 
u 
a: 
w "' 
Q z 
ct "' 
w 
a: 
:::) 
Q 
w u 
0 
a: 
0. u 
:c 
l­
a: 
0 
L3221 - L3410 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
366 
El L3221 Orthopedic footwear, mens shoe, depth 
inlay, each 
cl' E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A8 
El L3222 Orthopedic footwear, mens shoe, hightop, 
depth inlay, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A8 
E L3224 Orthopedic footwear, woman's shoe, 
Oxford, used as an integral part of a 
brace (orthosis) 
i E!IJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l]J L3225 Orthopedic footwear, man's shoe, Oxford, 
used as an integral part of a brace 
m L3230 
E L3250 
l!1 L3251 
m L3252 
l]J L3253 
l]J L3254 
l]J L3255 
l]J L3257 
m L3260 
mi L3265 
( orthosis) 
cl' E!IJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Orthopedic footwear, custom shoe, depth 
inlay, each 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Orthopedic footwear, custom molded 
shoe, removable inner mold, prosthetic 
shoe, each 
BETOS:D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A 
A 
Foot, shoe molded to patient model, silicone 
shoe, each 
A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Foot, shoe molded to patient model, 
Plastazote (or similar), custom 
fabricated, each 
A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Foot, molded shoe Plastazote (or similar) 
custom fitted, each 
A 
BETOS:D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Non-standard size or width 
A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Non-standard size or length 
A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Orthopedic footwear, additional charge for 
split size 
A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Surgical boot/shoe, each 
E1 
BETOS:D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Plastazote sandal, each 
A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
SHOE LIFTS (L3300-L3334) 
E L3300 Lift, elevation, heel, tapered to 
metatarsals, per inch 
EID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E L3310 Lift, elevation, heel and sole, neoprene, 
per inch 
E!IJA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E L3320 Lift, elevation, heel and sole, cork, 
per inch 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l]J L3330 Lift, elevation, metal extension (skate) mil A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E L3332 Lift, elevation, inside shoe, tapered, 
up to one-half inch 
E!IJA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m L3334 Lift, elevation, heel, per inch 
BIIA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
SHOE WEDGES (L3340-L3420) 
l]J L3340 Heel wedge, SACH 
E!IJA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E L3350 Heel wedge 
E!IJA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E L3360 Sole wedge, outside sole 
E!IJA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E L3370 Sole wedge, between sole 
E!IJA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l]J L3380 Clubfoot wedge 
BIIA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E L3390 Outflare wedge 
mllA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l]J L3400 Metatarsal bar wedge, rocker 
m!JA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
E L3410 Metatarsal bar wedge, between sole 
BIIA
BETOS:D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare 
llJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic@ 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
l!J L3420 Full sole and heel wedge, 
between sole 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
SHOE HEELS (L3430-L3485) 
l!J L3430 Heel, counter, plastic reinforced 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3440 Heel, counter, leather reinforced 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3450 Heel, SACH cushion type 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3455 Heel, new leather, standard 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3460 Heel, new rubber, standard 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3465 Heel, Thomas with wedge 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3470 Heel, Thomas extended to ball 
lilllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3480 Heel, pad and depression for spur 
Eml A 
BET0S: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3485 Heel, pad, removable for spur 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
OTHER ORTHOPEDIC SHOE ADDITIONS (L3500-L3595) 
l!J L3500 Orthopedic shoe addition, insole, 
leather 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3510 Orthopedic shoe addition, insole, 
rubber 
Eml A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3520 Orthopedic shoe addition, insole, felt 
covered with leather 
Eml A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3530 Orthopedic shoe addition, sole, half 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1!J L3540 Orthopedic shoe addition, sole, full 
Eml A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
L3420 - L3649 
l!J L3550 Orthopedic shoe addition, toe tap 
standard 
EmlA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3560 Orthopedic shoe addition, toe tap, 
horseshoe 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3570 Orthopedic shoe addition, special 
extension to instep (leather with 
eyelets) 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3580 Orthopedic shoe addition, convert instep 
to velcro closure 
Eml A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3590 Orthopedic shoe addition, convert firm 
shoe counter to soft counter 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3595 Orthopedic shoe addition, March bar 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ORTHOSIS TRANSFERS (L3600-L3649) 
l!J L3600 Transfer of an orthosis from one shoe 
to another, caliper plate, existing 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3610 Transfer of an orthosis from one shoe 
to another, caliper plate, new 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3620 Transfer of an orthosis from one shoe 
to another, solid stirrup, existing 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3630 Transfer of an orthosis from one shoe to 
another, solid stirrup, new 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3640 Transfer of an orthosis from one shoe 
to another, dennis browne splint 
(Riveton), both shoes 
EmlA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L3649 Orthopedic shoe, modification, addition or 
transfer, not otherwise specified 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
r:l' Male only 
6 Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -23 = ASC Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
1ml MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
367 
r­
w 
.,::. 
N 
0 
r­
w 
0\ 
.,::. 
0 
:a 
-f ::c 
 n 
"ti 
:a 
0 
n 
m 
0 
C: 
:a 
m "' 
)I, z 
0 "' 
m 
:a < n "' 
i= 
0 ... ... 
w ... -
'° '° 
..... "" 
_. 
I 
0 
II\ '° "" 
_. 
-.. 
IV\ 
10 
q' 
..J 
I 
N .. .. 
0 
..J 
11'1 
w 
u 
a:: 
w 
11'1 
C z 
cc 
11'1 
w 
a:: 
=> 
C 
w 
u 
0 
a:: 
0. u 
§ 
::c 
t­
a:: 
0 
L3650- L3766 
SHOULDER ORTHOTICS (L3650-L3678) 
B L3650 Shoulder orthosis (SO), figure of eight design 
abduction restrainer, prefabricated, 
Bl L3660 
off-the-shelf 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Shoulder orthosis (SO), figure of eight design 
abduction restrainer, canvas and webbing, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3670 Shoulder orthosis (SO), acromio/clavicular 
(canvas and webbing type), prefabricated, 
mi L3671 
off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Shoulder orthosis (SO), shoulder joint 
design, without joints, may include soft 
interface, straps, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
mi L3674 Shoulder orthosis (SO), abduction 
positioning (airplane design), thoracic 
component and support bar, with or without 
nontorsion joint/turnbuckle, may include 
soft interface, straps, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
mi L3675 Shoulder orthosis (SO), vest type abduction 
restrainer, canvas webbing type or equal, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I]) L3677 Shoulder orthosis (SO), shoulder joint 
design, without joints, may include soft 
interface, straps, prefabricated item that has 
been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise 
A 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
mi L3678 Shoulder orthosis (SO), shoulder joint 
design, without joints, may include soft 
interface, straps, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ELBOW ORTHOTICS (L3702-L3762) 
mi L3702 Elbow orthosis (EO), without joints, 
may include soft interface, straps, 
custom fabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
mi L3710 Elbow orthosis (EO), elastic with metal 
joints, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
Bl L3720 Elbow orthosis (EO), double upright with 
forearm/arm cuffs, free motion, 
EJ L3730 
mi L3740 
mi L3760 
custom-fabricated 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Elbow orthosis (EO), double upright with 
forearm/arm cuffs, extension/ flexion 
assist, custom-fabricated 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Elbow orthosis (EO), double upright with 
forearm/arm cuffs, adjustable position 
lock with active control, 
custom-fabricated 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Elbow orthosis (EO), with adjustable position 
locking joint(s), prefabricated, item that has 
been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
mi L3761 Elbow orthosis (EO), with adjustable 
position locking joint(s), prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
mi L3762 Elbow orthosis (EO), rigid, without 
joints, includes soft interface material, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETO$: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ELBOW-WRIST-HAND-FINGER ORTHOTICS (L3763-L3766) 
mi L3763 Elbow wrist hand orthosis (EWHO), rigid, 
without joints, may include soft interface, 
straps, custom fabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
mi L3764 Elbow wrist hand orthosis (EWHO), includes 
one or more nontorsion joints, elastic bands, 
turnbuckles, may include soft interface, 
straps, custom fabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
mi L3765 Elbow wrist hand finger orthosis (EWHFO), 
rigid, without joints, may include soft 
interface, straps, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
mi L3766 Elbow wrist hand finger orthosis (EWHFO), 
includes one or more nontorsion joints, 
elastic bands, turnbuckles, may include soft 
interface, straps, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• New code 
A Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
368 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
WRIST-HAND-FINGER ORTHOTICS (L3806-L3904) 
8 L3806 Wrist hand finger orthosis (WHFO), includes 
one or more nontorsion joint(s), turnbuckles, 
elastic bands/springs, may include soft 
interface material, straps, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3807 Wrist hand finger orthosis (WHFO), without 
joint(s}, prefabricated item that has been 
trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, or 
otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3808 Wrist hand finger orthosis (WHFO), rigid 
without joints, may include soft interface 
material; straps, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3809 Wrist hand finger orthosis (WHFO), 
without joint(s), prefabricated, off-the-shelf, 
any type 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
D L3891 Addition to upper extremity joint, wrist or 
elbow, concentric adjustable torsion style 
mechanism for custom fabricated orthotics 
only, each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
8 L3900 Wrist hand finger orthosis (WHFO), dynamic 
flexor hinge, reciprocal wrist extension/ 
flexion, finger flexion/extension, wrist or 
finger driven, custom-fabricated 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3901 Wrist hand finger orthosis (WHFO), dynamic 
flexor hinge, reciprocal wrist extension/ 
flexion, finger flexion/extension, cable 
driven, custom-fabricated 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3904 Wrist hand finger orthosis (WHFO), external 
powered, electric, custom-fabricated 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
WRIST-HAND ORTHOTICS (L3905-L3908) 
8 L3905 Wrist hand orthosis (WHO), includes one 
or more nontorsion joints, elastic bands, 
turnbuckles, may include soft interface, 
straps, custom fabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3906 Wrist hand orthosis (WHO}, without 
joints, may include soft interface, straps, 
custom fabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L3806 - L3923 
8 L3908 Wrist hand orthosis (WHO), wrist extension 
control cock-up, non molded, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
EllJ A
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ADDITIONAL MISCELLANEOUS ORTHOTICS, UPPER 
EXTREMITIES (L3912-L3956) 
8 L3912 Hand finger orthosis (HFO), flexion glove 
with elastic finger control, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3913 Hand finger orthosis (HFO), without 
joints, may include soft interface, straps, 
custom fabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3915 Wrist hand orthosis (WHO), includes one 
or more nontorsion joint(s), elastic bands, 
turnbuckles, may include soft interface, 
straps, prefabricated item that has been 
trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, or 
otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3916 Wrist hand orthosis (WHO), includes one 
or more nontorsion joint(s), elastic bands, 
turnbuckles, may include soft interface, 
straps, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3917 Hand orthosis (HO}, metacarpal fracture 
orthosis, prefabricated item that has been 
trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, or 
otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3918 Hand orthosis (HO), metacarpal fracture 
orthosis, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
EllJ A
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3919 Hand orthosis (HO), without joints, 
may include soft interface, straps, 
custom fabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3921 Hand finger orthosis (HFO), includes one 
or more nontorsion joints, elastic bands, 
turnbuckles, may include soft interface, 
straps, custom fabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3923 Hand finger orthosis (HFO), without 
joints, may include soft interface, straps, 
prefabricated item that has been trimmed, 
bent, molded, assembled, or otherwise 
customized to fit a specific patient by 
an individual with expertise 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
<l' Male on l y  
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2- Z3 = ASC Paymen t indicator 
llLllJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Status ind icator 
!:Im MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
369 
r 
w 
c» 
0 
0\ 
r 
w '° 
ti-' 
w 
0 
:ti 
-t :c s n 
"O 
:ti 
0 
n 
m 
C 
C: 
:ti 
m 
V, 
):,, z 
C 
V, 
m 
:ti < n 
m 
V, --
r-... ... 
r-
w ... 
..... ..... 
0\ 
M 
...I 
oi::I" 
N 
0\ 
M 
...I 
... 
..I 
I N ... ... 
0 
..I -"' 
w 
u 
a: 
w "' 
C z 
cs: "' 
w 
a: 
::, 
C 
w 
u 
0 
a: 
Q. 
u 
j:::: 
0 
:c 
l­
a: 
0 
l3924 - l3977 
B L3924 Hand finger orthosis (HFO), without 
joints, may include soft interface, 
straps, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3925 Finger orthosis (FO), proximal 
interphalangeal (PIP)/distal interphalangeal 
(DIP), non torsion joint/spring, extension/ 
flexion, may include soft interface 
material, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3927 Finger orthosis (FO), proximal 
interphalangeal (PIP)/distal interphalangeal 
(DIP), without joint/spring, extension/flexion 
(e.g., static or ring type), may include soft 
interface material, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3929 Hand finger orthosis (HFO), includes one or 
more nontorsion joint(s), turnbuckles, elastic 
bands/springs, may include soft interface 
material, straps, prefabricated item that has 
been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3930 Hand finger orthosis (HFO), includes one or 
more nontorsion joint(s), turnbuckles, elastic 
bands/springs, may include soft interface 
material, straps, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3931 Wrist hand finger orthosis (WHFO), includes 
one or more nontorsion joint( s ), turnbuckles, 
elastic bands/springs, may include soft 
interface material, straps, prefabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3933 Finger orthosis (FO), without joints, may 
include soft interface, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3935 Finger orthosis (FO), nontorsion joint, may 
include soft interface, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3956 Addition of joint to upper extremity 
orthosis, any material; per joint 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
SHOULDER-ELBOW-WRIST-HAND ORTHOTICS (L3960-L3973) 
8 L3960 Shoulder elbow wrist hand orthosis 
(SEWHO), abduction positioning, airplane 
design, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
B L3961 Shoulder elbow wrist hand orthosis 
(SEWHO), shoulder cap design, without 
joints, may include soft interface, straps, 
custom fabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3962 Shoulder elbow wrist hand orthosis 
(SEWHO), abduction positioning, erb's palsy 
design, prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3967 Shoulder elbow wrist hand orthosis 
(SEWHO), abduction positioning (airplane 
design), thoracic component and support 
bar, without joints, may include soft interface, 
straps, custom fabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3971 Shoulder elbow wrist hand orthosis 
(SEWHO), shoulder cap design, includes 
one or more nontorsion joints, elastic bands, 
turnbuckles, may include soft interface, 
straps, custom fabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L3973 Shoulder elbow wrist hand orthosis 
(SEWHO), abduction positioning (airplane 
design), thoracic component and support 
bar, includes one or more nontorsion joints, 
elastic bands, turnbuckles, may include 
soft interface, straps, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
SHOULDER-ELBOW-WRIST-HAND-FINGER ORTHOTICS 
(L3975-L3978) 
8 L3975 Shoulder elbow wrist hand finger 
orthosis, shoulder cap design, without 
joints, may include soft interface, straps, 
custom fabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3976 Shoulder elbow wrist hand finger orthosis, 
abduction positioning (airplane design), 
thoracic component and support bar, without 
joints, may include soft interface, straps, 
custom fabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
lilD A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
8 L3977 Shoulder elbow wrist hand finger orthosis, 
shoulder cap design, includes one or 
more nontorsion joints, elastic bands, 
turnbuckles, may include soft interface, 
straps, custom fabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
lilD A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• New code 
A Revised code 
8 Carrier judgment 
Ii) Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
li!il Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
370 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
131 L3978 Shoulder elbow wrist hand finger orthosis, 
abduction positioning (airplane design), 
thoracic component and support bar, 
includes one or more nontorsion joints, 
elastic bands, turnbuckles, may include 
soft interface, straps, custom fabricated, 
includes fitting and adjustment 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
FRACTURE, ADDITION, AND UNSPECIFIED ORTHOTICS, 
UPPER EXTREMITIES (L3980-L3999) 
131 L3980 Upper extremity fracture orthosis, 
humeral, prefabricated, includes fitting 
and adjustment 
Blll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L3981 Upper extremity fracture orthosis, humeral, 
prefabricated, includes shoulder cap design, 
with or without joints, forearm section, 
may include soft interface, straps, includes 
fitting and adjustments 
Blll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L3982 Upper extremity fracture orthosis, radius/ 
ulnar, prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
Blll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L3984 Upper extremity fracture orthosis, 
wrist, prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L3995 Addition to upper extremity orthosis, 
sock, fracture or equal, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L3999 Upper limb orthosis, not otherwise 
specified 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ORTHOTIC REPLACEMENT PARTS OR REPAIR (L4000-L4210) 
131 L4000 Replace girdle for spinal orthosis 
(Cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
(CTLSO) or Shoulder orthosis (SO)) 
Blll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4002 Replacement strap, any orthosis, includes 
all components, any length, any type 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4010 Replace trilateral socket brim 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4020 Replace quadrilateral socket brim, 
molded to patient model 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4030 Replace quadrilateral socket brim, 
custom fitted 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L3978 - L4360 
131 L4040 Replace molded thigh lacer, for custom 
fabricated orthosis only 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4045 Replace non-molded thigh lacer, 
for custom fabricated orthosis only 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic de.vices 
131 L4050 Replace molded calf lacer, for custom 
fabricated orthosis only 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4055 Replace non-molded calf lacer, 
for custom fabricated orthosis only 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4060 Replace high roll cuff 
ElIIA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4070 Replace proximal and distal upright 
for KAFO 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4080 Replace metal bands KAFO, proximal 
thigh 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l3I L4090 Replace metal bands KAFO-AFO, 
calf or distal thigh 
ElIIA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4100 Replace leather cuff KAFO, proximal 
thigh 
m!IA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l3I L4110 Replace leather cuff KAFO-AFO, 
calf or distal thigh 
ElIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4130 Replace pretibial shell 
Blll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4205 Repair of orthotic device, labor component, 
per 15 minutes 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4210 Repair of orthotic device, repair or replace 
minor parts 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
OTHER LOWER EXTREMITY ORTHOTICS {L4350-L4631) 
131 L4350 Ankle control orthosis, stirrup style, rigid, 
includes any type interface (e.g., pneumatic, 
gel), prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
Blll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
131 L4360 Walking boot, pneumatic and/or vacuum, 
with or without joints, with or without 
interface material, prefabricated item that 
has been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise Blll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d" Male only 
° Female only 
8 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A- Y = APC Status indicator
11J!i1 MIPS code 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
371 
r­
w 
\0 ..... 
00 
r­
± 
w 
0\ 
0 
0 :a 
-t 
::c s n 
"'Cl :a 
0 
n 
m 
0 
C: :a 
m "' 
)lo z 
0 "' 
m :a 
< n 
m -... ... 
t,J 
w ... -
-... 
N ... ... 
0 
..J "' 
w u 
a: 
w "' 
Q z 
ct "' 
w 
a: 
::, 
Q 
w 
u 
0 
a: 
0. 
u 
§ 
:c 
 
0 
L4361 - L4631 
Orthotic Procedures and Services (L0112-L4631) 
372 
B L4361 Walking boot, pneumatic and/or vacuum, 
with or without joints, with or without 
interface material, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4370 Pneumatic full leg splint, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4386 Walking boot, non-pneumatic, with or without 
joints, with or without interface material, 
prefabricated item that has been trimmed, 
bent, molded, assembled, or otherwise 
customized to fit a specific patient by an 
individual with expertise 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4387 Walking boot, non-pneumatic, with or without 
joints, with or without interface material, 
prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4392 Replacement, soft interface material, 
static AFO 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4394 Replace soft interface material, foot drop 
splint 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4396 Static or dynamic ankle foot orthosis, 
including soft interface material, adjustable 
for fit, for positioning, may be used for 
minimal ambulation, prefabricated item that 
has been trimmed, bent, molded, assembled, 
or otherwise customized to fit a specific 
patient by an individual with expertise ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4397 Static or dynamic ankle foot orthosis, 
including soft interface material, adjustable 
for fit, for positioning, may be used for 
minimal ambulation, prefabricated, 
off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4398 Foot drop splint, recumbent positioning 
device, prefabricated, off-the-shelf 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L4631 Ankle foot orthosis (AFO), walking boot 
type, varus/valgus correction, rocker bottom, 
anterior tibial shell, soft interface, custom 
arch support, plastic or other material, 
includes straps and closures, custom 
fabricated 
liml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
u Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) 
PROSTHETIC PROCEDURES (L5000-L9900) 
PARTIAL FOOT PROSTHETICS (L5000-L5020) 
1:J LSOOO Partial foot, shoe insert with longitudinal 
arch, toe filler 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l:J L5010 Partial foot, molded socket, ankle height, 
with toe filler 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l:J L5020 Partial foot, molded socket, tibial tubercle 
height, with toe filler 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ANKLE PROSTHETICS (L5050, L5060) 
B L5050 Ankle, Symes, molded socket, 
SACH foot 
El!JA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5060 Ankle, Symes, metal frame, molded 
leather socket, articulated ankle/foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
BELOW THE KNEE PROSTHETICS (L5100, L5105) 
B L5100 Below knee, molded socket, shin, 
SACH foot 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5105 Below knee, plastic socket, joints and 
thigh lacer, SACH foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
KNEE DISARTICULATION PROSTHETICS (L5150, L5160) 
B L5150 Knee disarticulation (or through knee), 
molded socket, external knee joints, 
shin, SACH foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5160 Knee disarticulation (or through knee), 
molded socket, bent knee configuration, 
external knee joints, shin, SACH foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ABOVE THE KNEE PROSTHETICS (L5200-L5230) 
B L5200 Above knee, molded socket, single axis 
constant friction knee, shin, SACH foot Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5210 Above knee, short prosthesis, no knee joint 
('stubbies'), with foot blocks, no ankle 
joints, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5220 Above knee, short prosthesis, no knee 
joint ('stubbies'), with articulated ankle/foot, 
dynamically aligned, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LSOOO - LS400 
B L5230 Above knee, for proximal femoral focal 
deficiency, constant friction knee, shin, 
SACH foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
HIP DISARTICULATION PROSTHETICS (L5250, L5270) 
B L5250 Hip disarticulation, Canadian type; molded 
socket, hip joint, single axis constant 
friction knee, shin, SACH foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5270 Hip disarticulation, tilt table type; molded 
socket, locking hip joint, single axis constant 
friction knee, shin, SACH foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ENDOSKELETAL PROSTHETICS, LOWER LIMBS 
(L5280-L5341) 
B L5280 Hemipelvectomy, Canadian type; molded 
socket, hip joint, single axis constant 
friction knee, shin, SACH foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5301 Below knee, molded socket, shin, 
SACH foot, endoskeletal system 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
B L5312 Knee disarticulation (or through knee), 
molded socket, single axis knee,'pylon, 
SACH foot, endoskeletal system 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5321 Above knee, molded socket, open end, 
SACH foot, endoskeletal system, 
single axis knee 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
B L5331 Hip disarticulation, Canadian type, molded 
socket, endoskeletal system, hip joint, 
single axis knee, SACH foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
B L5341 Hemipelvectomy, Canadian type, molded 
socket, endoskeletal system, hip joint, 
single axis knee, SACH foot 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
PROSTHETIC FITTING, IMMEDIATE POSTSURGICAL OR 
EARLY, LOWER LIMBS (L5400-L5460) 
B L5400 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of initial rigid dressing, including 
fitting, alignment, suspension, and one 
cast change, below knee 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
cl' Male only 
 Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Ell) Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
tllm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
373 
L5410 - L5610 
B L5410 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of initial rigid dressing, including 
fitting, alignment and suspension, below 
knee, each additional cast change and 
realignment 
ElII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5420 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of initial rigid dressing, 
including fitting, alignment and suspension 
and one cast change 'AK' or knee 
disarticulation 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5430 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of initial rigid dressing, incl. fitting, 
alignment and suspension, 'AK' or knee 
disarticulation, each additional cast 
change and realignment 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5450 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of non-weight bearing rigid 
dressing, below knee 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5460 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of non-weight bearing rigid 
dressing, above knee 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
SUPPLY, INITIAL PROSTHESIS (L5500-L5505) 
B L5500 Initial, below knee 'PTB' type socket, non­
alignable system, pylon, no cover, SACH 
foot, plaster socket, direct formed 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5505 Initial, above knee - knee disarticulation, 
ischial level socket, non-alignable system, 
pylon, no cover, SACH foot, plaster 
socket, direct formed 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
SUPPLY, PREPARATORY PROSTHESIS (L5510-L5600) 
B L5510 Preparatory, below knee 'PTB' type socket, 
non-alignable system, pylon, no cover, 
SACH foot, plaster socket, molded to 
model 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5520 Preparatory, below knee 'PTB' type socket, 
non-alignable system, pylon, no cover, 
SACH foot, thermoplastic or equal, 
direct formed 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5530 Preparatory, below knee 'PTB' type socket, 
non-alignable system, pylon, no cover, 
SACH foot, thermoplastic or equal, 
molded to model 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Prosthetic Procedures (LS000-L9900) 
B L5535 Preparatory, below knee 'PTB' type socket, 
non-alignable system, no cover, SACH 
foot, prefabricated, adjustable open end 
socket 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5540 Preparatory, below knee 'PTB' type socket, 
non-alignable system, pylon, no cover, 
SACH foot, laminated socket, molded to 
model 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5560 Preparatory, above knee- knee 
disarticulation, ischial level socket, non­
alignable system, pylon, no cover, SACH 
foot, plaster socket, molded to model 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5570 Preparatory, above knee - knee 
disarticulation, ischial level socket, 
non-alignable system, pylon, no cover, 
SACH foot, thermoplastic or equal, direct 
formed 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5580 Preparatory, above knee - knee 
disarticulation ischial level socket, non­
alignable system, pylon, no cover, SACH 
foot, thermoplastic or equal, molded 
to model 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5585 Preparatory, above knee - knee 
disarticulation, ischial level socket, non­
alignable system, pylon, no cover, SACH 
foot, prefabricated adjustable open 
end socket 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5590 Preparatory, above knee - knee 
disarticulation ischial level socket, non­
alignable system, pylon no cover, SACH foot, 
laminated socket, molded to model 
Elli A
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5595 Preparatory, hip disarticulation­
hemipelvectomy, pylon, no cover, SACH foot, 
thermoplastic or equal, molded to patient 
model 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5600 Preparatory, hip disarticulation­
hemipelvectomy, pylon, no cover, SACH 
foot, laminated socket, molded to patient 
model 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ENDOSKELETAL PROSTHETIC ADDITIONS, LOWER 
EXTREMITIES (L5610-L5617) 
B L5610 Addition to lower extremity, endoskeletal 
system, above knee, hydracadence 
system 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
-• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Cartier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
e) Non-covered by Medicare
 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
374 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) 
B L5611 Addition to lower extremity, endoskeletal 
system, above knee-knee disarticulation, 
4 bar linkage, with friction swing phase 
control 
liLl!JA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5613 Addition to lower extremity, endoskeletal 
system, above knee-knee disarticulation, 
4 bar linkage, with hydraulic swing 
phase control 
liLlIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5614 Addition to lower extremity, exoskeletal 
system, above knee-knee disarticulation, 
4 bar linkage, with pneumatic swing phase 
control 
liLl!JA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• B L5615 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
4 bar linkage or multiaxial, fluid swing and 
stance phase control 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5616 Addition to lower extremity, endoskeletal 
system, above knee, universal multiplex 
system, friction swing phase control 
liLl!J A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5617 Addition to lower extremity, quick change 
self-aligning unit, above knee or below 
knee, each 
liLlIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
TEST SOCKET PROSTHETIC ADDITIONS, LOWER 
EXTREMITIES (L5618-L5828) 
B L5618 Addition to lower extremity, test socket, 
Symes 
llmlA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5620 Addition to lower extremity, test socket, 
below knee 
liLlIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5622 Addition to lower extremity, test socket, 
knee disarticulation 
liLlIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5624 Addition to lower extremity, test socket, 
above knee 
liLlIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5626 Addition to lower extremity, test socket, 
hip disarticulation 
liLlIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5628 Addition to lower extremity, test socket, 
hemipelvectomy 
liLlIJ A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
VARIOUS PROSTHETIC SOCKETS (Lll829·LIS853) 
B L5629 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
acrylic socket 
liLlIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L5611 - L5649 
B L5630 Addition to lower extremity, Symes type, 
expandable wall socket 
ED A
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5631 Addition to lower extremity, above knee or 
knee disarticulation, acrylic socket 
liLlIJ A
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5632 Addition to lower extremity, Symes type, 
'PTB' brim design socket 
ED A
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5634 Addition to lower extremity, Symes type, 
posterior opening (Canadian) socket 
ED A
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5636 Addition to lower extremity, Symes type, 
medial opening socket 
ED A
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5637 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
total contact 
rm A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5638 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
leather socket 
liLlIJ A
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5639 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
wood socket 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5640 Addition to lower extremity, knee 
disarticulation, leather socket 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5642 Addition to lower extremity, above knee, 
leather socket 
liLlIJ A
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5643 Addition to lower extremity, hip 
disarticulation, flexible inner socket, 
external frame 
ED A
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5644 Addition to lower extremity, above knee, 
wood socket 
liLlIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5645 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
flexible inner socket, external frame rm A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5646 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
air, fluid, gel or equal, cushion socket liLl!J A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5647 Addition to lower extremity, below knee 
suction socket 
ED A
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5648 Addition to lower extremity, above knee, 
air, fluid, gel or equal, cushion socket ED A
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5649 Addition to lower extremity, ischial 
containment/narrow M-L socket 
rm A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
o" Male only 
¬ Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
liLlIJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
film MIPScode
CP  is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
375 
L5650 - L5686 
B L5650 Additions to lower extremity, total contact, 
above knee or knee disarticulation 
socket 
El!JA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5651 Addition to lower extremity, above knee, 
flexible inner socket, external frame 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5652 Addition to lower extremity, suction 
suspension, above knee or knee 
disarticulation socket 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5653 Addition to lower extremity, knee 
disarticulation, expandable wall socket ED A 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
SOCKET INSERT, SUSPENSIONS, AND OTHER PROSTHETIC 
ADDITIONS (L5654-L5699) 
B L5654 Addition to lower extremity, socket insert, 
Symes, (Kemblo, Pelite, Aliplast, 
Plastazote or equal) 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5655 Addition to lower extremity, socket insert, 
below knee (Kemble, Pelite, Aliplast, 
Plastazote or equal) 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5656 Addition to lower extremity, socket insert, 
knee disarticulation (Kemble, Pelite, 
Aliplast, Plastazote or equal) 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5658 Addition to lower extremity, socket insert, 
above knee (Kemble, Pelite, Aliplast, 
Plastazote or equal) 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5661 Addition to lower extremity, socket insert, 
multi-durometer Symes 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5665 Addition to lower extremity, socket insert, 
multi-durometer, below knee 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5666 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
cuff suspension 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5668 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
molded distal cushion 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5670 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
molded supracondylar suspension 
('PTS' or similar) 
l!llJ'I A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5671 Addition to lower extremity, below knee/ 
above knee suspension locking mechanism 
(shuttle, lanyard or equal), excludes 
socket insert 
l!llJ'I A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) 
B L5672 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
removable medial brim suspension 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5673 Addition to lower extremity, below knee/ 
above knee, custom fabricated from existing 
mold or prefabricated, socket insert, silicone 
gel, elastomeric or equal, for use with 
locking mechanism 
l!llJ'I A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5676 Additions to lower extremity, below knee, 
knee joints, single axis, pair 
l!llJ'I A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5677 Additions to lower extremity, below knee, 
knee joints, polycentric, pair 
l!llJ'I A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5678 Additions to lower extremity, below knee, 
joint covers, pair 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5679 Addition to lower extremity, below knee/ 
above knee, custom fabricated from existing 
mold or prefabricated, socket insert, silicone 
gel, elastomeric or equal, not for use with 
locking mechanism 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5680 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
thigh lacer, nonmolded 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5681 Addition to lower extremity, below knee/ 
above knee, custom fabricated socket insert 
for congenital or atypical traumatic amputee, 
silicone gel, elastomeric or equal, for use 
with or without locking mechanism, initial 
only (for other than initial, use code L5673 
or L5679) 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5682 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
thigh lacer, gluteal/ischial, molded 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5683 Addition to lower extremity, below knee/ 
above knee, custom fabricated socket insert 
for other than congenital or atypical traumatic 
amputee, silicone gel, elastomeric or equal, 
for use with or without locking mechanism, 
initial only (for other than initial, use code 
L5673 or L5679) 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5684 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
fork strap 
ED A
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5685 Addition to lower extremity prosthesis, below 
knee, suspension/sealing sleeve, with 
or without valve, any material, each 
l!llJ'I A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5686 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
back check (extension control) 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
mi Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clini 
376 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (LSOOO-L9900) 
ml L5688 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
waist belt, webbing 
lllilll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml L5690 Addition to lower extremity, below knee, 
waist belt, padded and lined 
lllilll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml L5692 Addition to lower extremity, above knee, 
pelvic control belt, light 
lllilll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml L5694 Addition to lower extremity, above knee, 
pelvic control belt, padded and lined 
lllilll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml L5695 Addition to lower extremity, above knee, 
pelvic control, sleeve suspension, 
neoprene or equal, each 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml L5696 Addition to lower extremity, above knee 
or knee disarticulation, pelvic joint 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml L5697 Addition to lower extremity, above knee or 
knee disarticulation, pelvic band 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml L5698 Addition to lower extremity, above knee or 
knee disarticulation, Silesian bandage lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5699 All lower extremity prostheses, shoulder 
harness 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
REPLACEMENT SOCKETS (L5700-L5703) 
B L5700 Replacement, socket, below knee, 
molded to patient model 
lllilll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5701 Replacement, socket, above knee/knee 
disarticulation, including attachment plate, 
molded to patient model 
lllilll A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5702 Replacement, socket, hip disarticulation, 
including hip joint, molded to patient 
model 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5703 Ankle, Symes, molded to patient model, 
socket without solid ankle cushion heel 
(SACH) foot, replacement only 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
CUSTOM-SHAPED PROTECTIVE COVERS (L5704-L5707) 
ml L5704 Custom shaped protective cover, 
below knee 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5705 Custom shaped protective cover, 
above knee 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LS688 - LS780 
B L5706 Custom shaped protective cover, knee 
disarticulation 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5707 Custom shaped protective cover, hip 
disarticulation 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EXOSKELETAL KNEE-SHIN SYSTEM ADDITIONS 
(L571 O-L5780) 
B L5710 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, manual lock 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5711 Additions exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, manual lock, ultra-light 
material 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5712 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, friction swing and stance 
phase control (safety knee) 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5714 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, variable friction swing phase 
control 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5716 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin 
system, polycentric, mechanical stance 
phase lock 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5718 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
polycentric, friction swing and stance 
phase control 
lllilll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5722 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, pneumatic swing, friction 
stance phase control 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5724 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, fluid swing phase control 
EID A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5726 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, external joints fluid swing 
phase control 
mII A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5728 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, fluid swing and stance 
phase control 
EilII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! L5780 Addition, exoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, pneumatic/hydra pneumatic 
swing phase control 
lllilll A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
r;/' Male only 
 Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
f!IW MIPS code 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
EilII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
377 
LS781 - LS859 
VACUUM PUMPS, LOWER LIMB PROSTHETIC ADDITIONS 
(L5781, L5782) 
B L5781 Addition to lower limb prosthesis, vacuum 
pump, residual limb volume management 
and moisture evacuation system 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5782 Addition to lower limb prosthesis, vacuum 
pump, residual limb volume management 
and moisture evacuation system, 
heavy duty 
Eml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
OTHER EXOSKELETAL ADDITIONS (L5785-L5795) 
B L5785 Addition, exoskeletal system, below knee, 
ultra-light material (titanium, carbon 
fiber or equal) 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5790 Addition, exoskeletal system, above knee, 
ultra-light material (titanium, carbon 
fiber or equal) 
Eml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5795 Addition, exoskeletal system, hip 
disarticulation, ultra-light material 
(titanium, carbon fiber or equal) 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ENDOSKELETAL KNEE OR HIP SYSTEM ADDITIONS 
(L5810-L5966) 
B L5810 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, manual lock 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5811 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, manual lock, ultra-light 
material 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5812 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, friction swing and stance phase 
control (safety knee) 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5814 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
polycentric, hydraulic swing phase control, 
mechanical stance phase lock 
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5816 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
polycentric, mechanical stance phase 
lock 
EmlA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5818 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
polycentric, friction swing, and stance 
phase control 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5822 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, pneumatic swing, friction 
stance phase control 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) 
B L5824 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, fluid swing phase control 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5826 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, hydraulic swing phase control, 
with miniature high activity frame 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5828 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, fluid swing and stance phase 
control 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5830 Addition, endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
single axis, pneumatic/ swing phase 
control 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5840 Addition, endoskeletal knee/shin system, 
4-bar linkage or multiaxial, pneumatic
swing phase control
Eml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5845 Addition, endoskeletal, knee-shin system, 
stance flexion feature, adjustable 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5848 Addition to endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
fluid stance extension, dampening feature, 
with or without adjustability 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5850 Addition, endoskeletal system, above 
knee or hip disarticulation, knee extension 
assist 
EmlA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5855 Addition, endoskeletal system, hip 
disarticulation, mechanical hip extension 
assist 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5856 Addition to lower extremity prosthesis, 
endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
microprocessor control feature, swing and 
stance phase, includes electronic sensor(s), 
any type 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5857 Addition to lower extremity prosthesis, 
endoskeletal knee-shin system, 
microprocessor control feature, swing phase 
only, includes electronic sensor(s), 
any type 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5858 Addition to lower extremity prosthesis, 
endoskeletal knee shin system, 
microprocessor control feature, stance phase 
only, includes electronic sensor(s), 
any type 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5859 Addition to lower extremity prosthesis, 
endoskeletal knee-shin system, powered 
and programmable flexion/extension assist 
control, includes any type motor(s) 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode
.t. Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment 
6J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
e) Non-covered by Medicare 
E) Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
378 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (LSOOO-L9900) 
Leg prosthesis 
S L5910 Addition, endoskeletal system, below knee, 
alignable system 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5920 Addition, endoskeletal system, above knee 
or hip disarticulation, alignable system ED A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5925 Addition, endoskeletal system, above knee, 
knee disarticulation or hip disarticulation, 
manual lock 
ED A
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• S L5926 Addition to lower extremity prosthesis,
endoskeletal, knee disarticulation, above 
knee, hip disarticulation, positional rotation 
unit, any type 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5930 Addition, endoskeletal system, high activity 
knee control frame 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5940 Addition, endoskeletal system, below knee, 
ultra-light material (titanium, carbon fiber or 
equal) 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5950 Addition, endoskeletal system, above knee, 
ultra-light material (titanium, carbon fiber 
or equal) 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5960 Addition, endoskeletal system, hip 
disarticulation, ultra-light material 
(titanium, carbon fiber or equal) 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5961 
S L5962 
S L5964 
S L5966 
L591 0 - L5976 
Addition, endoskeletal system, polycentric 
hip joint, pneumatic or hydraulic control, 
rotation control, with or without flexion 
and/or extension control 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition, endoskeletal system, below knee, 
flexible protective outer surface covering 
system 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition, endoskeletal system, above knee, 
flexible protective outer surface covering 
system 
EDA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition, endoskeletal system, hip 
disarticulation, flexible protective outer 
surface covering system 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ANKLE AND/OR FOOT PROSTHETICS AND ADDITIONS 
(L5968-L5999) 
S L5968 Addition to lower limb prosthesis, multiaxial 
ankle with swing phase active dorsiflexion 
feature 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5969 Addition, endoskeletal ankle-foot or ankle 
system, power assist, includes any type 
motor(s) 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5970 All lower extremity prostheses, foot, external 
keel, solid ankle cushion heel (SACH) 
foot 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5971 All lower extremity prosthesis, solid ankle 
cushion heel (SACH) foot, replacement 
only 
EDA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5972 All lower extremity prostheses, foot, 
flexible keel 
BA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5973 Endoskeletal ankle foot system, 
microprocessor controlled feature, 
dorsiflexion and/or plantar flexion control, 
includes power source 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5974 All lower extremity prostheses, foot, 
single axis ankle/foot 
m A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5975 All lower extremity prosthesis, combination 
single axis ankle and flexible keel foot ED A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S L5976 All lower extremity prostheses, energy 
storing foot (seattle carbon copy II or 
equal) 
EDA 
BETOS: D1F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d" Male only 
 Female only 
e Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment i ndicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
rm1 MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
379 
L5978 - L6250 
S L5978 All lower extremity prostheses, foot, 
multiaxial ankle/foot 
llLlII A 
B L5979 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
All lower extremity prosthesis, multi-axial 
ankle, dynamic response foot, one piece 
system 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5980 All lower extremity prostheses, flex foot 
llLlII A
B L5981 
system 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
All lower extremity prostheses, flex-walk 
system or equal 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5982 All exoskeletal lower extremity prostheses, 
axial rotation unit 
llLlII A 
B L5984 
B L5985 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
All endoskeletal lower extremity prosthesis, 
axial rotation unit, with or without 
adjustability 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
All endoskeletal lower extremity prostheses, 
dynamic prosthetic pylon 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5986 All lower extremity prostheses, multi-axial 
B L5987 
rotation unit ('MCP' or equal) 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
All lower extremity prosthesis, shank foot 
system with vertical loading pylon 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5988 Addition to lower limb prosthesis, vertical 
B L5990 
• B L5991
shock reducing pylon feature 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Addition to lower extremity prosthesis, 
user adjustable heel height 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
Addition to lower extremity prostheses, 
osseointegrated external prosthetic 
connector 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L5999 Lower extremity prosthesis, not otherwise 
specified 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
PARTIAL HAND PROSTHETICS (L6000-L6026) 
B L6000 Partial hand, thumb remaining 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6010 Partial hand, little and/or ring finger 
remaining 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6020 Partial hand, no finger remaining 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6026 
Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) 
Transcarpal/metacarpal or partial hand 
disarticulation prosthesis, external power, 
self-suspended, inner socket with removable 
forearm section, electrodes and cables, 
two batteries, charger, myoelectric control 
of terminal device, excludes terminal 
device(s) 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
WRIST DISARTICULATION, HAND PROSTHETICS 
(L6050-L6055) 
B L6050 Wrist disarticulation, molded socket, 
B L6055 
flexible elbow hinges, triceps pad 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Wrist disarticulation, molded socket with 
expandable interface, flexible elbow 
hinges, triceps pad 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
BELOW ELBOW, FOREARM AND HAND PROSTHETICS 
(L61 00-L6130) 
B L6100 Below elbow, molded socket, flexible 
elbow hinge, triceps pad 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6110 Below elbow, molded socket, (Muenster 
B L6120 
B L6130 
or Northwestern suspension types) 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Below elbow, molded double wall split 
socket, step-up hinges, half cuff 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Below elbow, molded double wall split 
socket, stump activated locking hinge, 
half cuff 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ELBOW DISARTICULATION, FOREARM AND HAND 
PROSTHETICS (L6200·L6205) 
B L6200 Elbow disarticulation, molded socket, 
B L6205 
outside locking hinge, forearm 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Elbow disarticulation, molded socket with 
expandable interface, outside locking 
hinges, forearm 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ABOVE ELBOW, FOREARM AND HAND PROSTHETICS 
(L6250) 
B L6250 Above elbow, molded double wall socket, 
internal locking elbow, forearm 
llLlII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode
.a. Revised code 
l3I Carrier judgment 
liJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
380 
li!jJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (LSOOO-L9900) 
SHOULDER DISARTICULATION, ARM AND HAND 
PROSTHETICS (L6300-L6320) 
B L6300 Shoulder disarticulation, molded socket, 
shoulder bulkhead, humeral section, 
internal locking elbow, forearm 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6310 Shoulder disarticulation, passive 
restoration (complete prosthesis) 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6320 Shoulder disarticulation, passive 
restoration (shoulder cap only) 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
INTERSCAPULAR THORACIC, ARM, AND HAND 
PROSTHETICS (L6350-L6370) 
B L6350 lnterscapular thoracic, molded socket, 
shoulder bulkhead, humeral section, 
internal locking elbow, forearm 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6360 lnterscapular thoracic, passive restoration 
(complete prosthesis) 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L6300 - L6588 
MOLDED SOCKET ENDOSKELETAL PROSTHETIC SYSTEM, 
UPPER LIMBS (L6400-L6570) 
B L6400 Below elbow, molded socket, endoskeletal 
system, including soft prosthetic tissue 
shaping 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6450 Elbow disarticulation, molded socket, 
endoskeletal system, including soft 
prosthetic tissue shaping 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6500 Above elbow, molded socket, endoskeletal 
system, including soft prosthetic tissue 
shaping 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6550 Shoulder disarticulation, molded socket, 
endoskeletal system, including soft 
prosthetic tissue shaping 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6570 lnterscapular thoracic, molded socket, 
endoskeletal system, including soft 
prosthetic tissue shaping 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6370 lnterscapular thoracic, passive restoration 
PREPARATORY PROSTHETIC, UPPER LIMBS (L6580-L6590) 
(shoulder cap only) 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
PROSTHETIC FITTING, IMMEDIATE POSTSURGICAL OR 
EARLY, UPPER LIMBS (L6380-L6388) 
B L6380 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of initial rigid dressing, including 
fitting alignment and suspension of 
components, and one cast change, 
wrist disarticulation or below elbow 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6382 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of initial rigid dressing including 
fitting alignment and suspension of 
components, and one cast change, 
elbow disarticulation or above elbow 
liLllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6384 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of initial rigid dressing including 
fitting alignment and suspension of 
components, and one cast change, 
shoulder disarticulation or interscapular 
thoracic 
EllJA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6386 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
each additional cast change and 
realignment 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6388 Immediate post surgical or early fitting, 
application of rigid dressing only 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6580 Preparatory, wrist disarticulation or below 
elbow, single wall plastic socket, friction 
wrist, flexible elbow hinges, figure of eight 
harness, humeral cuff, Bowden cable control, 
USMC or equal pylon, no cover, molded 
to patient model 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6582 Preparatory, wrist disarticulation or below 
elbow, single wall socket, friction wrist, 
flexible elbow hinges, figure of eight harness, 
humeral cuff, Bowden cable control, USMC 
or equal pylon, no cover, direct formed EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6584 Preparatory, elbow disarticulation or above 
elbow, single wall plastic socket, friction 
wrist, locking elbow, figure of eight harness, 
fair lead cable control, USMC or equal pylon, 
no cover, molded to patient model 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6586 Preparatory, elbow disarticulation or above 
elbow, single wall socket, friction wrist, 
locking elbow, figure of eight harness, fair 
lead cable control, USMC or equal pylon, 
no cover, direct formed 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6588 Preparatory, shoulder disarticulation or 
interscapular thoracic, single wall plastic 
socket, shoulder joint, locking elbow, friction 
wrist, chest strap, fair lead cable control, 
USMC or equal pylon, no cover, molded 
to patient model 
EllJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
cl' Male only 
ft. Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment Indicator 
EllJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status Indicator
Clm MIPScode
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
381 
L6590 - L6665 
B L6590 Preparatory, shoulder disarticulation or 
interscapular thoracic, single wall socket, 
shoulder joint, locking elbow, friction wrist, 
chest strap, fair lead cable control, USMC or 
equal pylon, no cover, direct formed 
ID A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
UPPER EXTREMITY PROSTHETIC ADDITIONS (L6600-L6698) 
B L6600 Upper extremity additions, polycentric 
hinge, pair 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6605 Upper extremity additions, single pivot 
hinge, pair 
ID A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6610 Upper extremity additions, flexible metal 
hinge, pair 
EllJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6611 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, 
external powered, additional switch, 
any type 
El!JA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6615 Upper extremity addition, disconnect 
locking wrist unit 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6616 Upper extremity addition, additional 
disconnect insert for locking wrist unit, 
each 
El!JA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6620 Upper extremity addition, flexion/extension 
wrist unit, with or without friction 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6621 Upper extremity prosthesis addition, flexion/ 
extension wrist with or without friction, 
for use with external powered terminal 
device 
IDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6623 Upper extremity addition, spring 
assisted rotational wrist unit with latch 
release 
IDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6624 Upper extremity addition, flexion/extension 
and rotation wrist unit 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6625 Upper extremity addition, rotation wrist 
unit with cable lock 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6628 Upper extremity addition, quick 
disconnect hook adapter, Otto Bock 
or equal 
IDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6629 Upper extremity addition, quick disconnect 
lamination collar with coupling piece, 
Otto Bock or equal 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) 
B L6630 Upper extremity addition, stainless steel, 
any wrist 
IDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6632 Upper extremity addition, latex suspension 
sleeve, each 
ID A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6635 Upper extremity addition, lift assist for 
elbow 
IDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6637 Upper extremity addition, nudge control 
elbow lock 
ID A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6638 Upper extremity addition to prosthesis, 
electric locking feature, only for use 
with manually powered elbow 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6640 Upper extremity additions, shoulder 
abduction joint, pair 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6641 Upper extremity addition, excursion 
amplifier, pulley type 
ID A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6642 Upper extremity addition, excursion 
amplifier, lever type 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6645 Upper extremity addition, shoulder 
flexion-abduction joint, each 
ID A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6646 Upper extremity addition, shoulder joint, 
multipositional locking, flexion, adjustable 
abduction friction control, for use with 
body powered or external powered 
system 
IDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6647 Upper extremity addition, shoulder lock 
mechanism, body powered actuator 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6648 Upper extremity addition, shoulder 
lock mechanism, external powered 
actuator 
El!JA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6650 Upper extremity addition, shoulder 
universal joint, each 
ID A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6655 Upper extremity addition, standard 
control cable, extra 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6660 Upper extremity addition, heavy duty 
control cable 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6665 Upper extremity addition, Teflon, or 
equal, cable lining 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode 
"" Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
D Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Cllnlt• 
382 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) 
B L6670 Upper extremity addition, hook to hand, 
cable adapter 
BIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6672 Upper extremity addition, harness, chest 
or shoulder, saddle type 
BIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6675 Upper extremity addit'.-.-,, harness, 
(e.g., figure of eight type), single cable 
design 
BIIJA 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6676 Upper extremity addition, harness, (e.g., 
figure of eight type), dual cable design BIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6677 Upper extremity addition, harness, triple 
control, simultaneous operation of terminal 
device and elbow 
BIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6680 Upper extremity addition, test socket, 
wrist disarticulation or below elbow 
l!ml A
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6682 Upper extremity addition, test socket, 
elbow disarticulation or above elbow 
BIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6684 Upper extremity addition, test socket, 
shoulder disarticulation or interscapular 
thoracic 
BIIJA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6686 Upper extremity addition, suction 
socket 
EIJJ A
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6687 Upper extremity addition, frame type socket, 
below elbow or wrist disarticulation 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6688 Upper extremity addition, frame type socket, 
above elbow or elbow disarticulation 
EIJJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6689 Upper extremity addition, frame type socket, 
shoulder disarticulation 
l!ml A
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6690 Upper extremity addition, frame type socket, 
interscapular-thoracic 
l!ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6691 Upper extremity addition, removable insert, 
each 
IDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6692 Upper extremity addition, silicone gel insert 
or equal, each 
EIJJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6693 Upper extremity addition, locking elbow, 
forearm counterbalance 
EIJJ A
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6694 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, below 
elbow/above elbow, custom fabricated from 
existing mold or prefabricated, socket insert, 
L6670 - L6711 
silicone gel, elastomeric or equal, for use 
with locking mechanism 
ID A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6695 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, below 
elbow/above elbow, custom fabricated from 
existing mold or prefabricated, socket insert, 
silicone gel, elastomeric or equal, not for 
use with locking mechanism 
EIJJ A
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6696 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, 
below elbow/above elbow, custom fabricated 
socket insert for congenital or atypical 
traumatic amputee, silicone gel, elastomeric 
or equal, for use with or without locking 
mechanism, initial only (for other than 
initial, use code L6694 or L6695) 
BIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6697 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, 
below elbow/above elbow, custom fabricated 
socket insert for other than congenital or 
atypical traumatic amputee, silicone gel, 
elastomeric or equal, for use with or without 
locking mechanism, initial only (for other than 
initial, use code L6694 or L6695) 
BIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6698 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, 
below elbow/above elbow, lock mechanism, 
excludes socket insert 
l!ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
TERMINAL DEVICES AND ADDITIONS (L6703-L6882) 
B L6703 Terminal device, passive hand/mitt, 
any material, any size 
l!ml A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6704 Terminal device, sport/recreational/work 
attachment, any material, any size 
BIIJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6706 Terminal device, hook, mechanical, voluntary 
opening, any material, any size, lined or 
unlined 
IDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6707 Terminal device, hook, mechanical, voluntary 
closing, any material, any size, lined or 
unlined 
EIJJ A
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6708 Terminal device, hand, mechanical, voluntary 
opening, any material, any size 
BIIJ A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6709 Terminal device, hand, mechanical, voluntary 
closing, any material, any size 
EIJJ A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6711 Terminal device, hook, mechanical, voluntary 
opening, any material, any size, lined or 
unlined, pediatric 
l!ml O A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
cl' Male o n ly 
¥- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
Lm) MIPScode
ASC = ASC Ap proved Procedure 
l!ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
383 
L6712 - L6925 
B L6712 Terminal device, hook, mechanical, voluntary 
closing, any material, any size, lined or 
unlined, pediatric 
Im O A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B L6713 Terminal device, hand, mechanical, 
voluntary opening, any material, any size, 
pediatric 
Im O A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B L6714 Terminal device, hand, mechanical, 
voluntary closing, any material, any size, 
pediatric 
Im O A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
B L6715 Terminal device, multiple articulating 
digit, includes motor(s), initial issue or 
replacement 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6721 Terminal device, hook or hand, heavy duty, 
mechanical, voluntary opening, any 
material, any size, lined or unlined 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
B L6722 Terminal device, hook or hand, heavy duty, 
mechanical, voluntary closing, any 
material, any size, lined or unlined 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4 
I:] L6805 Addition to terminal device, modifier 
wrist unit 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I:] L6810 Addition to terminal device, precision 
pinch device 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6880 Electric hand, switch or myoelectric 
controlled, independently articulating digits, 
any grasp pattern or combination of 
grasp patterns, includes motor(s) 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6881 Automatic grasp feature, addition to upper 
limb electric prosthetic terminal device Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
I:] L6882 Microprocessor control feature, addition to 
upper limb prosthetic terminal device 
Eml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
REPLACEMENT SOCKETS, UPPER LIMBS (L6883-L6885) 
B L6883 Replacement socket, below elbow/wrist 
disarticulation, molded to patient model, for 
use with or without external power 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Prosthetic Procedures (LSOOO-L9900) 
B L6884 Replacement socket, above elbow/elbow 
disarticulation, molded to patient model, 
for use with or without external power Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6885 Replacement socket, shoulder 
disarticulation/interscapular thoracic, molded 
to patient model, for use with or without 
external power 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
HAND RESTORATION PROSTHETICS AND ADDITIONS 
(L6890-L6915) 
B L6890 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, 
glove for terminal device, any material, 
prefabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6895 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, glove 
for terminal device, any material, custom 
fabricated 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6900 Hand restoration (casts, shading and 
measurements included), partial hand, 
with glove, thumb or one finger 
remaining 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6905 Hand restoration (casts, shading and 
measurements included), partial hand, 
with glove, multiple fingers remaining 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6910 Hand restoration (casts, shading and 
measurements included), partial hand, 
with glove, no fingers remaining 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6915 Hand restoration (shading, and 
measurements included), replacement 
glove for above 
llml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EXTERNAL POWER UPPER LIMB PROSTHETICS 
(L6920-L6975) 
B L6920 Wrist disarticulation, external power, self­
suspended inner socket, removable forearm 
shell, Otto Bock or equal, switch, cables, two 
batteries and one charger, switch control 
of terminal device 
llml A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6925 Wrist disarticulation, external power, self­
suspended inner socket, removable forearm 
shell, Otto Bock or equal electrodes, cables, 
two batteries and one charger, myoelectronic 
control of terminal device 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode
.t. Revised code 
mi Carrier judgment 
I:] Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
(! Non-covered by Medicare 
El) Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
384 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (LS000-L9900) 
B L6930 Below elbow, external power, self-suspended 
inner socket, removable forearm shell, Otto 
Bock or equal switch, cables, two batteries 
and one charger, switch control of terminal 
device 
mIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6935 Below elbow, external power, self-suspended 
inner socket, removable forearm shell, 
Otto Bock or equal electrodes, cables, two 
batteries and one charger, myoelectronic 
control of terminal device 
mII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6940 Elbow disarticulation, external power, 
molded inner socket, removable humeral 
shell, outside locking hinges, forearm, Otto 
Bock or equal switch, cables, two batteries 
and one charger, switch control of terminal 
device 
mIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6945 Elbow disarticulation, external power, molded 
inner socket, removable humeral shell, 
outside locking hinges, forearm, Otto Bock 
or equal electrodes, cables, two batteries 
and one charger, myoelectronic control of 
terminal device 
mII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6950 Above elbow, external power, molded 
inner socket, removable humeral shell, 
internal locking elbow, forearm, Otto Bock 
or equal switch, cables, two batteries and 
one charger, switch control of terminal 
device 
mIIA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6955 Above elbow, external power, molded inner 
socket, removable humeral shell, internal 
locking elbow, forearm, Otto Bock or equal 
electrodes, cables, two batteries and one 
charger, myoelectronic control of terminal 
device 
mIIA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6960 Shoulder disarticulation, external power, 
molded inner socket, removable shoulder 
shell, shoulder bulkhead, humeral section, 
mechanical elbow, forearm, Otto Bock or 
equal switch, cables, two batteries and 
one charger, switch control of terminal 
device 
mIIA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6965 Shoulder disarticulation, external power, 
molded inner socket, removable shoulder 
shell, shoulder bulkhead, humeral section, 
mechanical elbow, forearm, Otto Bock or 
equal electrodes, cables, two batteries 
and one charger, myoelectronic control of 
terminal device 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L6930-L7190 
B L6970 lnterscapular-thoracic, external power, 
molded inner socket, removable shoulder 
shell, shoulder bulkhead, humeral section, 
mechanical elbow, forearm, Otto Bock or 
equal switch, cables, two batteries and 
one charger, switch control of terminal 
device 
mIIA 
BETOS: 01F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L6975 lnterscapular-thoracic, external power, 
molded inner socket, removable shoulder 
shell, shoulder bulkhead, humeral section, 
mechanical elbow, forearm, Otto Bock or 
equal electrodes, cables, two batteries 
and one charger, myoelectronic control 
of terminal device 
mII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ELECTRIC HAND OR HOOK AND ADDITIONS (L7007-L7045) 
B L7007 Electric hand, switch or myoelectric 
controlled, adult 
mII O A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7008 Electric hand, switch or myoelectric, 
controlled, pediatric 
mII O A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7009 Electric hook, switch or myoelectric 
controlled, adult 
mII O A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7040 Prehensile actuator, switch controlled mII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7045 Electric hook, switch or myoelectric 
controlled, pediatric 
mII O A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ELECTRONIC ELBOW AND ADDITIONS (L7170-L7259) 
B L7170 Electronic elbow, Hosmer or equal, switch 
controlled 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7180 Electronic elbow, microprocessor sequential 
control of elbow and terminal device 
mII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7181 Electronic elbow, microprocessor 
simultaneous control of elbow and 
terminal device 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7185 Electronic elbow, adolescent, Variety 
Village or equal, switch controlled 
mII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7186 Electronic elbow, child, Variety Village or 
equal, switch controlled 
mII O A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7190 Electronic elbow, adolescent, Variety Village 
or equal, myoelectronically controlled llml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
mII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
IZim MIPS code
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
385 
L7191 - L7902 
B L7191 Electronic elbow, child, Variety Village or 
equal, myoelectronically controlled 
Im O A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7259 Electronic wrist rotator, any type 
liLlll A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
BATTERIES AND ACCESSORIES (L7360-L7368) 
B L7360 Six volt battery, each 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7362 Battery charger, six volt, each 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7364 Twelve volt battery, each 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7366 Battery charger, twelve volt, each 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7367 Lithium ion battery, rechargeable, 
replacement 
Eml A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7368 Lithium ion battery charger, replacement 
only 
Im A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ADDITIONS FOR UPPER EXTREMITY PROSTHETICS 
(L7400-L7405) 
B L7400 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, below 
elbow/wrist disarticulation, ultralight material 
(titanium, carbon fiber or equal) 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Arm prosthesis 
B L7401 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, above 
elbow disarticulation, ultralight material 
(titanium, carbon fiber or equal) 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7402 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, 
shoulder disarticulation/interscapular 
thoracic, ultralight material (titanium, carbon 
fiber or equal) 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) 
B L7403 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, 
below elbow/wrist disarticulation, acrylic 
material 
limlA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7404 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, above 
elbow disarticulation, acrylic material 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7405 Addition to upper extremity prosthesis, 
shoulder disarticulation/interscapular 
thoracic, acrylic material 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
UPPER EXTREMITY PROSTHETICS, NOT OTHERWISE 
SPECIFIED (NOS) (L7499) 
B L7499 Upper extremity prosthesis, not otherwise 
specified 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
PROSTHETIC REPAIR (L7510, L7520) 
Ii) L7510 Repair of prosthetic device, repair or replace 
minor parts 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L7520 Repair prosthetic device, labor component, 
per 15 minutes 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
PROSTHETIC DONNING SLEEVE (L7600) 
El L7600 Prosthetic donning sleeve, any material, 
each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(1 )(a) 
GASKET OR SEAL WITH PROSTHETIC (L7700) 
B L7700 Gasket or seal, for use with prosthetic socket 
insert, any type, each 
mII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
PENILE PROSTHETICS (L7900, L7902) 
El L7900 Male vacuum erection system 
d" E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1834a 
El L7902 Tension ring, for vacuum erection device, 
any type, replacement only, each 
d" E1 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1834a 
• Newcode
4 Revised code 
Eal Ca (ier judgment 
6J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!jJ Non-covered by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
386 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (LSO00-L9900) 
BREAST PROSTHETICS AND ACCESSORIES (L8000-L8039), 
SEE ALSO PROSTHETIC BREAST IMPLANT (L8600) 
l!J LSOOO Breast prosthesis, mastectomy bra, without 
integrated breast prosthesis form, any size, 
any type 
Bill A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8001 Breast prosthesis, mastectomy bra, with 
integrated breast prosthesis form, unilateral, 
any size, any type 
Bill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthelic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
l!J L8002 Breast prosthesis, mastectomy bra, with 
integrated breast prosthesis form, bilateral, 
any size, any type 
Bill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
l!J L8010 Breast prosthesis, mastectomy sleeve 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L8015 External breast prosthesis garment, with 
mastectomy form, post mastectomy 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8020 Breast prosthesis, mastectomy form 
Bill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Ortholic devices 
l!J L8030 Breast prosthesis, silicone or equal, 
without integral adhesive 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8031 Breast prosthesis, silicone or equal, with 
integral adhesive 
Bill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8032 Nipple prosthesis, prefabricated, 
reusable, any type, each 
ElIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8033 Nipple prosthesis, custom fabricated, 
reusable, any material, any type, each 
A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8035 Custom breast prosthesis, post mastectomy, 
molded to patient model 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthelic/Orthotic devices 
B L8039 Breast prosthesis, not otherwise specified A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
FACIAL AND EXTERNAL EAR PROSTHETICS (L8040-L8049) 
B L8040 Nasal prosthesis, provided by a 
non-physician 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: KM,KN 
B L8041 Midfacial prosthesis, provided by a 
non-physician 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Ortholic devices 
DME Modifier: KM,KN 
LSOOO - L841 5 
B L8042 Orbital prosthesis, provided by a 
non-physician 
Bill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: KM,KN 
B L8043 Upper facial prosthesis, provided by a 
non-physician 
Bill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: KM.KN 
B L8044 Hemi-facial prosthesis, provided by a 
non-physician 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: KM,KN 
B L8045 Auricular prosthesis, provided by a 
non-physician 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthelic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: KM,KN 
B L8046 Partial facial prosthesis, provided by a 
non-physician 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: KM,KN 
B L8047 Nasal septal prosthesis, provided by a 
non-physician 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
DME Modifier: KM,KN 
B L8048 Unspecified maxillofacial prosthesis, by 
report, provided by a non-physician 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8049 Repair or modification of maxillofacial 
prosthesis, labor component, 15 minute 
increments, provided by a non-physician 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
HERNIA TRUSSES (L8300-L8330) 
l!J L8300 Truss, single with standard pad 
Bill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8310 Truss, double with standard pads 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8320 Truss, addition to standard pad, 
water pad 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8330 Truss, addition to standard pad, 
scrotal pad 
cl' ElII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthelic/Orthotic devices 
PROSTHETIC SHEATHS, SOCKS, AND SHRINKERS 
(L8400-L8485) 
l!J L8400 Prosthetic sheath, below knee, each 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8410 Prosthetic sheath, above knee, each 
Bill A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8415 Prosthetic sheath, upper limb, each 
EID A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
cl' Male only 
Ë Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
lillm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
387 
L8417 - L8604 
B L8417 Prosthetic sheath/sock, including a gel 
cushion layer, below knee or above knee, 
each 
GIi A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8420 Prosthetic sock, multiple ply, below knee, 
each 
GIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8430 Prosthetic sock, multiple ply, above knee, 
each 
mIIA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8435 Prosthetic sock, multiple ply, upper limb, 
each 
mIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8440 Prosthetic shrinker, below knee, each GIi A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8460 Prosthetic shrinker, above knee, each GIi A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8465 Prosthetic shrinker, upper limb, each 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8470 Prosthetic sock, single ply, fitting, 
below knee, each 
lilD A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8480 Prosthetic sock, single ply, fitting, 
above knee, each 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8485 Prosthetic sock, single ply, fitting, 
upper limb, each 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
UNLISTED PROSTHETIC PROCEDURES (L8499) 
B L8499 Unlisted procedure for miscellaneous 
prosthetic services 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
VOICE PROSTHETICS AND ACCESSORIES (L8500-L8515) 
Prosthetic Procedures (LS000-L9900) 
l!J L8510 Voice amplifier 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
B L8511 Insert for indwelling tracheoesophageal 
prosthesis, with or without valve, 
replacement only, each 
lilD A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
. B L8512 Gelatin capsules or equivalent, for use 
with tracheoesophageal voice prosthesis, 
replacement only, per 10 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8513 Cleaning device used with 
tracheoesophageal voice prosthesis, 
pipet, brush, or equal, replacement only, 
each 
li!DA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8514 Tracheoesophageal puncture dilator, 
replacement only, each 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8515 Gelatin capsule, application device for use 
with tracheoesophageal voice prosthesis, 
each 
lilDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
PROSTHETIC BREAST IMPLANT (L8600), SEE ALSO BREAST 
PROSTHETICS AND ACCESSORIES (L8000-L8039) 
l!J L8600 Implantable breast prosthesis, silicone or 
major muscle 
equal 
N1 lilD ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Pectoralis 
minor muscle ' 
r
Pectoralis 
I 
0
mplant 
;:7'  -y' 
J 
l!J L8500 Artificial larynx, any type 
liJD A 
Subglandular 
Subfascial 
Subpectoral 
Submuscular 
388 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8501 Tracheostomy speaking valve 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8505 Artificial larynx replacement battery/ 
accessory, any type 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
B L8507 Tracheo-esophageal voice prosthesis, 
patient inserted, any type, each 
lilD A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
B L8509 Trachea-esophageal voice prosthesis, 
inserted by a licensed health care provider, 
any type 
lilDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
Breast prosthesis for augmentation 
BULKING AGENTS (L8603-L8607) 
l!J L8603 Injectable bulking agent, collagen 
implant, urinary tract, 2.5 ml syringe, 
includes shipping and necessary 
supplies 
N1 lilD ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8604 Injectable bulking agent, dextranomer/ 
hyaluronic acid copolymer implant, urinary 
tract, 1 ml, includes shipping and necessary 
supplies 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
• Newcode
• Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
ii Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (L5000-L9900) 
B L8605 Injectable bulking agent, dextranomer/ 
hyaluronic acid copolymer implant, anal 
canal, 1 ml, includes shipping and 
necessary supplies 
N1 Im ASC N 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8606 Injectable bulking agent, synthetic implant, 
urinary tract, 1 ml syringe, includes shipping 
and necessary supplies 
N1 Im ASC N 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8607 Injectable bulking agent for vocal cord 
medialization, 0.1 ml, includes shipping 
and necessary supplies 
N1 Im ASC N 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
IMPLANTABLE EYE AND EAR PROSTHETICS AND 
ACCESSORIES (l8608-L8629) 
B L8608 Miscellaneous external component, supply 
or accessory for use with the argus ii retinal 
prosthesis system 
N 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8609 Artificial cornea 
N1 Im ASC N 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8610 Ocular implant 
N1 Im ASC N 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8612 Aqueous shunt 
N1 Im ASC N 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8613 Ossicula implant 
N1 Im ASC N 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8614 Cochlear device, includes all internal and 
external components 
N1 Im ASC N Im 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2001, Q1; 2002, Q3; 2003, 
Q4;2016,Q3 
m L8615 HeadseUheadpiece for use with cochlear 
implant device, replacement 
Im A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8616 Microphone for use with cochlear implant 
device, replacement 
Im A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8617 Transmitting coil for use with cochlear 
implant device, replacement 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8618 Transmitter cable for use with cochlear 
implant device or auditory osseointegrated 
device, replacement 
Im A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8619 Cochlear implant, external speech 
processor and controller, integrated 
system, replacement 
Im A lliilD 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
L8605 - L8630 
Cochlear device 
B L8621 Zinc air battery for use with cochlear implant 
device and auditory osseointegrated sound 
processors, replacement, each 
Im A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8622 Alkaline battery for use with cochlear implant 
device, any size, replacement, each 
Im A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8623 Lithium ion battery for use with cochlear 
implant device speech processor, other 
than ear level, replacement, each 
Im A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8624 Lithium ion battery for use with cochlear 
implant or auditory osseointegrated device 
speech processor, ear level, replacement, 
each 
lmA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8625 External recharging system for battery 
for use with cochlear implant or auditory 
osseointegrated device, replacement only, 
each 
lmA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8627 Cochlear implant, external speech processor, 
component, replacement 
Im A mw 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8628 Cochlear implant, external controller 
component, replacement 
Im A lliilD 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m L8629 Transmitting coil and cable, integrated, 
for use with cochlear implant device, 
replacement 
Im A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
IMPLANTABLE HAND AND FEET PROSTHETICS 
(L8630-L8659) 
m L8630 Metacarpophalangeal joint 
implant 
N1 EIDASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
lli!lD MIPS code
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
389 
L8631 - L8695 
l:J L8631 Metacarpal phalangeal joint replacement, 
two or more pieces, metal (e.g., stainless 
steel or cobalt chrome), ceramic-like 
material (e.g., pyrocarbon), for surgical 
implantation (all sizes, includes entire 
system) 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8641 Metatarsal joint implant 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8642 Hallux implant 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8658 lnterphalangeal joint spacer, silicone or 
equal, each 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8659 lnterphalangeal finger joint replacement, 2 or 
more pieces, metal (e.g., stainless steel or 
cobalt chrome), ceramic-like material 
(e.g., pyrocarbon) for surgical 
implantation, any size 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
VASCULAR IMPLANTS (L8670) 
l!J L8670 Vascular graft material, synthetic, 
implant 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
IMPLANTABLE NEUROSTIMULATORS AND COMPONENTS 
(L8678-L8689) 
• El L8678 Electrical stimulator supplies (external) for
use with implantable neurostimulator, 
per month 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
l!J L8679 Implantable neurostimulator, pulse generator, 
any type 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
D L8680 Implantable neurostimulator electrode, 
each 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L8681 Patient programmer (external) for use with 
implantable programmable neurostimulator 
pulse generator, replacement only 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8682 Implantable neurostimulator radiofrequency 
receiver 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8683 Radiofrequency transmitter (external) 
for use with implantable neurostimulator 
radiofrequency receiver 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8684 Radiofrequency transmitter (external) for use 
with implantable sacral root neurostimulator 
receiver for bowel and bladder management, 
replacement 
Elli A 
Prosthetic Procedures (LSOOO-L9900) 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
D L8685 Implantable neurostimulator pulse generator, 
single array, rechargeable, includes 
extension 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D L8686 Implantable neurostimulator pulse generator, 
single array, non-rechargeable, includes 
extension 
E1 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D L8687 Implantable neurostimulator pulse 
generator, dual array, rechargeable, 
includes extension 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D L8688 Implantable neurostimulator pulse generator, 
dual array, non-rechargeable, includes 
extension 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J L8689 External recharging system for battery 
(internal) for use with implantable 
E1 
neurostimulator, replacement only 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
MISCELLANEOUS ORTHOTIC AND PROSTHETIC SERVICES 
AND SUPPLIES (L8690-L9900) 
El L8690 Auditory osseointegrated device, 
includes all internal and external 
components 
N1 Elli ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q1; 2016, Q3 
El L8691 Auditory osseointegrated device, external 
sound processor, excludes transducer/ 
actuator, replacement only, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
E L8692 Auditory osseointegrated device, 
external sound processor, used without 
osseointegration, body worn, includes 
headband or other means of external 
attachment 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(7) 
El L8693 Auditory osseointegrated device abutment, 
any length, replacement only 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El L8694 Auditory osseointegrated device, transducer/ 
actuator, replacement only, each 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l!J L8695 External recharging system for battery 
(external) for use with implantable 
neurostimulator, replacement only 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
El Carrier judgment 
B Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
E) Non-covered by Medicare statute
AHA Coding Clinic• 
390 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Prosthetic Procedures (LSOOO-L9900) 
fil L8696 Antenna (external) for use with implantable 
diaphragmatic/phrenic nerve stimulation 
device, replacement, each 
Ell) A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
fil L8698 Miscellaneous component, supply or 
accessory for use with total artificial heart 
system 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8699 Prosthetic implant, not otherwise 
specified 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B L8701 Powered upper extremity range of motion 
assist device, elbow, wrist, hand with 
single or double upright(s), includes 
microprocessor, sensors, all components 
and accessories, custom fabricated 
A 
BETOS: D1E Other DME 
B L8702 Powered upper extremity range of motion 
assist device, elbow, wrist, hand, finger, 
single or double upright{s), includes 
microprocessor, sensors, all components 
and accessories, custom fabricated 
A 
BETOS: D1 E OtherDME 
B L9900 Orthotic and prosthetic supply, accessory, 
and/or service component of another 
HCPCS "L" code 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d' Male only 
!?- Female only 
8 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Ell) Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
IIJm MIPS code 
L8696 - L9900 
391 
NOTES 
-------------------- -- --- ·-------------------------
-
Medical Services (M0001-M 1370) 
MEDICAL SERVICES (M0001-M1370) 
MIPS VALUE PATHWAYS (M0001-M0005) 
B M0001 Advancing cancer care mips 
value pathways 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M0002 Optimal care for kidney health mips value 
M 
pathways 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M0003 Optimal care for patients with episodic 
neurological conditions mips 
value pathways 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M0004 Supportive care for neurodegenerative 
conditions mips value pathways 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.._ B M0005 Value in primary care mips value pathway M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EOM (ENHANCING ONCOLOGY MODEL) ENHANCED 
SERVICES (M0010) 
• B M0010 Enhancing oncology model (eom) monthly
enhanced oncology services (meos) 
payment for eom enhanced services 
M 
BETOS: P78 
Oncology - other 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
MISCELLANEOUS MEDICAL SERVICES (M0075-M0301) 
m M0075 Cellular therapy 
E1 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m M0076 Prolotherapy 
E1 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m M0100 lntragastric hypothermia using gastric 
freezing 
E1 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.A. B M0201 Administration of pneumococcal, influenza, 
hepatitis b, and/or covid-19 vaccine inside 
a patient's home; reported only once 
per individual home per date of service 
when such vaccine administration(s) are 
performed at the patient's home 
S 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
M0001 - M0241 
B M0220 Injection, tixagevimab and cilgavimab, for 
the pre-exposure prophylaxis only, for certain 
adults and pediatric individuals (12 years of 
age and older weighing at least 40kg) with 
no known sars-cov-2 exposure, who either 
have moderate to severely compromised 
immune systems or for whom vaccination 
with any available covid-19 vaccine is not 
recommended due to a history of severe 
adverse reaction to a covid-19 vaccine(s) 
and/or covid-19 vaccine component(s), 
includes injection and post administration 
monitoring 
0 S 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
B M0221 Injection, tixagevimab and cilgavimab, for 
the pre-exposure prophylaxis only, for certain 
adults and pediatric individuals (12 years of 
age and older weighing at least 40kg) with 
no known sars-cov-2 exposure, who either 
have moderate to severely compromised 
immune systems or for whom vaccination 
with any available covid-19 vaccine is not 
recommended due to a history of severe 
adverse reaction to a covid-19 vaccine(s) 
and/or covid-19 vaccine component(s), 
includes injection and post administration 
monitoring in the home or residence; this 
includes a beneficiary's home that has been 
made provider-based to the hospital during 
the covid-19 public health emergency 
0 S 
BETOS: O1G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
B M0222 Intravenous injection, bebtelovimab, 
includes injection and post administration 
monitoring 
0 S 
BETOS: O1G 
Immunizations/Vaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
B M0223 Intravenous injection, bebtelovimab, includes 
injection and post administration monitoring 
in the home or residence; this includes a 
beneficiary's home that has been made 
provider-based to the hospital during the 
covid-19 public health emergency 
0 S 
BETOS: O1G 
Immunizations/Vaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
B M0240 Intravenous infusion or subcutaneous 
injection, casirivimab and imdevimab 
includes infusion or injection, and post 
administration monitoring, subsequent 
repeat doses 
0 S 
BETOS: 01 G 
Immunizations/Vaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3; 2021, Q4 
B M0241 Intravenous infusion or subcutaneous 
injection, casirivimab and imdevimab 
includes infusion or injection, and post 
administration monitoring in the home or 
residence; this includes a beneficiary's home 
that has been made provider-based to the 
cl' Male only 
.!?- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
film MIPScode 
ASC- ASC Approved Procedure 
liLIII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
393 
M0243-M1008 
Medical Services (MOOOl-M 1370) 
394 
hospital during the covid-19 public health 
emergency, subsequent repeat doses 
O S 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3; 2021, Q4 
1:1 M0243 Intravenous infusion or subcutaneous 
injection, casirivimab and imdevimab 
includes infusion or injection, and post 
administration monitoring 
S 
BETOS: O1G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4; 2021, Q1; 2022, 
Q2 
1:1 M0244 Intravenous infusion or subcutaneous 
injection, casirivimab and imdevimab 
includes infusion or injection, and post 
administration monitoring in the home or 
residence; this includes a beneficiary's home 
that has been made provider-based to the 
hospital during the COVI D-19 public health 
emergency 
BETOS: O1G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
1:1 M0245 Intravenous infusion, bamlanivimab and 
etesevimab, includes infusion and post 
s
administration monitoring 
s 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
1:1 M0246 Intravenous infusion, bamlanivimab and 
etesevimab, includes infusion and post 
administration monitoring in the home or 
residence; this includes a beneficiary's home 
that has been made provider based to the 
hospital during the covid 19 public health 
emergency 
s 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
1:1 M0247 Intravenous infusion, sotrovimab, includes 
infusion and post administration monitoring s 
BETOS: O1G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
1:1 M0248 Intravenous infusion, sotrovimab, includes 
infusion and post administration monitoring 
in the home or residence; this includes a 
beneficiary's home that has been made 
provider-based to the hospital during the 
covid-19 public health emergency 
s 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q3 
1:1 M0249 Intravenous infusion, tocilizumab, for 
hospitalized adults and pediatric patients 
(2 years of age and older) with covid-19 
who are receiving systemic corticosteroids 
and require supplemental oxygen, non­
invasive or invasive mechanical ventilation, 
or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
(ECMO) only, includes infusion and post 
administration monitoring, first dose 
s 
BETOS: O1G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
1:1 M0250 Intravenous infusion, tocilizumab, for 
hospitalized adults and pediatric patients 
(2 years of age and older) with covid-19 
who are receiving systemic corticosteroids 
and require supplemental oxygen, non­
invasive or invasive mechanical ventilation, 
or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
(ECMO) only, includes infusion and post 
administration monitoring, second dose 
s 
BETOS: O1G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
m M0300 IV chelation therapy (chemical 
endarterectomy) 
E1 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m M0301 Fabric wrapping of abdominal aneurysm 
E1 
BETOS: P1 G 
Major procedure - other 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2 
TB SCREENING (M1003-M1005) 
1:1 M1003 Tb screening performed and results 
interpreted within twelve months prior 
to initiation of first-time biologic and/or 
immune response modifier therapy 
M IIJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 M1004 Documentation of medical reason for 
not screening for tb or interpreting 
results (i.e., patient positive for tb and 
documentation of past treatment; patient 
who has recently completed a course of 
anti-lb therapy) 
M IIJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 M1005 Tb screening not performed or results not 
interpreted, reason not given 
M IIJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EVALUATION AND ASSESSMENT (M1006-M1014) 
1:1 M1006 Disease activity not assessed, 
reason not given 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 M1007 >=50% of total number of a patient's 
outpatient ra encounters assessed 
M tllW 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
1:1 M1008 <50% of total number of a patient's 
outpatient ra encounters assessed 
M IIJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
a M1009*Discharge/discontinuation of the 
episode of care documented in the 
medical record 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a M1010*Discharge/discontinuation of the 
episode of care documented in the 
medical record 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a M1011 * Discharge/discontinuation of the 
episode of care documented in the 
medical record 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a M1012*Discharge/discontinuation of the 
episode of care documented in the 
medical record 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a M1013*Discharge/discontinuation of the 
episode of care documented in the 
medical record 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a M1014*Discharge/discontinuation of the 
episode of care documented in the 
medical record 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PATIENT STATUS (M1016-M1018) 
l.!J M1016 Female patients unable 
to bear children 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Ml1ilm 
M 11m 
M 11m 
Ml1m 
M 11m 
M 11m 
l.!J M1018 Patients with an active diagnosis or history 
of cancer (except basal cell and squamous 
cell skin carcinoma), patients who are heavy 
tobacco smokers, lung cancer screening 
patients 
M 11m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ADOLESCENT DEPRESSION, REMISSION AND 
MANAGEMENT (M1019-M1021) 
l.!J M1019 Adolescent patients 12 to 17 years of 
age with major depression or dysthymia 
who reached remission at twelve months 
as demonstrated by a twelve month 
(+/-60 days) phq-9 or phq-9m score of 
less than 5 
0 M 11m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1009- M1036 
a M1020 Adolescent patients 12 to 17 years of age 
with major depression or dysthymia who 
did not reach remission at twelve months 
as demonstrated by a twelve month 
(+/-60 days) phq-9 or phq-9m score of 
less than 5. either phq-9 or phq-9m score 
was not assessed or is greater than or 
equal to 5 
0 M 11m 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a M1021 Patient had only urgent care visits 
during the performance period 
Ml1m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
HEAD IMAGING (M1027-M1029) 
a M1027 Imaging of the head (ct or mri) 
was obtained 
Ml1m 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a M1028 Documentation of patients with primary 
headache diagnosis and imaging 
other than ct or mri obtained 
M 11m 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a M1029 Imaging of the head (ct or mri) was not 
obtained, reason not given 
M [1m 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PHARMACOTHERAPY FOR OUD (M1032-M1036) 
l.!J M1032 Adults currently taking pharmacotherapy 
for oud 
0 M 11m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l.!J M1034 Adults who have at least 180 days of 
continuous pharmacotherapy with a 
medication prescribed for oud without a 
gap of more than seven days 
0 M 11m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l.!J M1035 Adults who are deliberately phased out 
of medication assisted treatment (mat) 
prior to 180 days of continuous 
treatment 
0 M 11m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l.!J M1036 Adults who have not had at least 180 days 
of continuous pharmacotherapy with a 
medication prescribed for oud without 
a gap of more than seven days 
0 M 11m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
·This code has the same descriptor as another code. At press time, CMS did not provide any further explanation. 
d' Male only 
/ Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Im Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
[1m MIPS code 
395 
M1037-M1059 
LUMBAR SPINE ASSOCIATED CONDITIONS (M1037-M1041) 
B M1037 Patients with a diagnosis of lumbar spine 
region cancer at the time of the procedure M 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1038 Patients with a diagnosis of lumbar 
spine region fracture at the time of the 
procedure 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1039 Patients with a diagnosis of lumbar spine 
region infection at the time of the 
procedure 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1040 Patients with a diagnosis of lumbar 
idiopathic or congenital scoliosis 
M 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1041 Patient had cancer, acute fracture or 
infection related to the lumbar spine or 
patient had neuromuscular, idiopathic or 
congenital lumbar scoliosis 
M cm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
FUNCTIONAL STATUS MEASUREMENT (M1043-M1049) 
B M1043 Functional status was not measured 
by the oswestry disability index (odi 
version 2.1 a) at one year (9 to 15 months) 
postoperatively 
M cm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1045 Functional status measured by the 
oxford knee score (oks) at one year 
(9 to 15 months) postoperatively was 
greater than or equal to 37 or knee injury 
and osteoarthritis outcome score joint 
replacement (koos, jr.) was greater than or 
equal to 71 
M llJm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1046 Functional status measured by the 
oxford knee score (oks) at one year (9 to 
15 months} postoperatively was less than 37 
or the knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome 
score joint replacement (koos, jr.) was less 
than 71 postoperatively 
M cm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1049 Functional status was not measured 
by the oswestry disability index (odi version 
2.1 a) at three months (6 - 20 weeks)
postoperatively
M cm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B
Medical Services (M0001-M 1370) 
LUMBAR SPINE CONDITIONS (M1051) 
B M1051 Patient had cancer, acute fracture or 
infection related to the lumbar spine or 
patient had neuromuscular, idiopathic or 
congenital lumbar scoliosis 
M cm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
LIMB PAIN ASSESSMENT (M1052) 
B M1052 Leg pain was not measured by the 
visual analog scale (vas) or numeric 
pain scale at one year (9 to 15 months) 
postoperatively 
M cm 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
URGENT CARE VISIT (M1054) 
B M1054 Patient had only urgent care visits during 
the performance period 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ANTICOAGULATION MANAGEMENT (M1055-M1057) 
B M1055 Aspirin or another antiplatelet 
therapy used 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1056 Prescribed anticoagulant medication 
during the performance period, history of 
gi bleeding, history of intracranial bleeding, 
bleeding disorder and specific provider 
documented reasons: allergy to aspirin or 
anti-platelets, use of non-steroidal anti­
inflammatory agents, drug-drug interaction, 
uncontrolled hypertension > 180/110 mmhg 
or gastroesophageal reflux disease 
M 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1057 Aspirin or another antiplatelet therapy not 
used, reason not given 
M 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT (M1058-M1060) 
B M1058 Patient was a permanent nursing home 
resident at any time during the performance 
period 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1059 Patient was in hospice or receiving palliative 
care at any time during the performance 
period 
M 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
 Revised code· 
B Carrier judgment 
[!l Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
Iii Non-covered by Medicare 
llJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
396 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
(31 M1060 Patient died prior to the end of the 
performance period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
HOSPICE SERVICES (M1067) 
B M1067 Hospice services for patient provided 
M 
any time during the measurement period 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
MOBILITY STATUS (M1068) 
(31 M1068 Adults who are not ambulatory 
o M
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
FALL RISK ASSESSMENT (M1069-M1070) 
(31 M1069 Patient screened for future fall risk 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1070 Patient not screened for future fall risk, 
reason not given 
M 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EPISODE OF CARE (M1106-M1143) 
(31 M1106 The start of an episode of care 
documented in the medical record 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1107 Documentation stating patient has a 
diagnosis of a degenerative neurological 
condition such as als, ms, or parkinson's 
diagnosed at any time before or 
during the episode of care 
M lililll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1108 Ongoing care not clinically indicated because 
the patient needed a home program only, 
referral to another provider or facility, or 
consultation only, as documented in the 
medical record 
MID 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1109 Ongoing care not medically possible 
because the patient was discharged early 
due to specific medical events, documented 
in the medical record, such as the patient 
became hospitalized or scheduled for 
surgery 
M lilllll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1060 - Ml 118 
(31 M1110 Ongoing care not possible because the 
patient self-discharged early (e.g., financial 
or insurance reasons, transportation 
problems, or reason unknown) 
M lilllll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1111 The start of an episode of care documented 
in the medical record 
M lililll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1112 Documentation stating patient has a 
diagnosis of a degenerative neurological 
condition such as als, ms, or parkinson's 
diagnosed at any time before or during the 
episode of care 
M lililll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1113 Ongoing care not clinically indicated because 
the patient needed a home program only, 
referral to another provider or facility, or 
consultation only, as documented in the 
medical record 
M lililll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1114 Ongoing care not medically possible 
because the patient was discharged early 
due to specific medical events, documented 
in the medical record, such as the patient 
became hospitalized or scheduled for 
surgery 
M lilllll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1115 Ongoing care not possible because the 
patient self-discharged early (e.g., financial 
or insurance reasons, transportation 
problems, or reason unknown) 
M lililll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1116 The start of an episode of care 
documented in the medical record 
M lililll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1117 Documentation stating patient has a 
diagnosis of a degenerative neurological 
condition such as als, ms, or parkinson's 
diagnosed at any time before or 
during the episode of care 
M lililll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
(31 M1118 Ongoing care not clinically indicated because 
the patient needed a home program only, 
referral to another provider or facility, or 
consultation only, as documented in the 
medical record 
M lililll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
8 Female only 
O Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
EID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Status indicator 
lil!lll MIPScode 
CP is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
397 
M1119-M1135 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
398 
B M1119 Ongoing care not medically possible 
because the patient was discharged early 
due to specific medical events, documented 
in the medical record, such as the patient 
became hospitalized or scheduled for 
surgery 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1120 Ongoing care not possible because the 
patient self-discharged early (e.g., financial 
or insurance reasons, transportation 
problems, or reason unknown) 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1121 The start of an episode of care 
documented in the medical record 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M mm 
B M1122 Documentation stating patient has a 
diagnosis of a degenerative neurological 
condition such as als, ms, or parkinson's 
diagnosed at any time before or 
during the episode of care 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1123 Ongoing care not clinically indicated because 
the patient needed a home program only, 
referral to another provider or facility, or 
consultation only, as documented in the 
medical record 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1124 Ongoing care not medically possible 
because the patient was discharged early 
due to specific medical events, documented 
in the medical record, such as the patient 
became hospitalized or scheduled for 
surgery 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1125 Ongoing care not possible because the 
patient self-discharged early (e.g., financial 
or insurance reasons, transportation 
problems, or reason unknown) 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1126 The start of an episode of care 
documented in the medical record 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1127 Documentation stating patient has a 
diagnosis of a degenerative neurological 
condition such as als, ms, or parkinson's 
diagnosed at any time before or during 
the episode of care 
M 11:m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1128 Ongoing care not clinically indicated 
because the patient needed a home program 
only, referral to another provider or facility, 
or consultation only, as documented in 
the medical record 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1129 Ongoing care not medically possible 
because the patient was discharged early 
due to specific medical events, documented 
in the medical record, such as the patient 
became hospitalized or scheduled for 
surgery 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1130 Ongoing care not possible because the 
patient self-discharged early (e.g., financial 
or insurance reasons, transportation 
problems, or reason unknown) 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1131 Documentation stating patient has a 
diagnosis of a degenerative neurological 
condition such as als, ms, or parkinson's 
diagnosed at any time before or during 
the episode of care 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1132 Ongoing care not clinically indicated because 
the patient needed a home program only, 
referral to another provider or facility, or 
consultation only, as documented in the 
medical record 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1133 Ongoing care not medically possible 
because the patient was discharged early 
due to specific medical events, documented 
in the medical record, such as the patient 
became hospitalized or scheduled for 
surgery 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1134 Ongoing care not possible because the 
patient self-discharged early (e.g., financial 
or insurance reasons, transportation 
problems, or reason unknown) 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1135 The start of an episode of care 
documented in the medical record 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
B Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical Services (M000l-M 1370) 
B M1141 Functional status was not measured by 
the oxford knee score (oks) or the knee 
injury and osteoarthritis outcome score 
joint replacement (koos, jr.) at one year 
(9 to 15 months) postoperatively 
M !1;m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1142 Emergent cases 
Mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1143 Initiated episode of rehabilitation therapy, 
medical, or chiropractic care for neck 
impairment 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
OTHER SERVICES (M1146-M1370) 
B M1146 Ongoing care not clinically indicated because 
the patient needed a home program only, 
referral to another provider or facility, or 
consultation only, as documented in the 
medical record 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1147 Ongoing care not medically possible 
because the patient was discharged early 
due to specific medical events, documented 
in the medical record, such as the patient 
became hospitalized or scheduled for 
surgery 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1148 Ongoing care not possible because the 
patient self-discharged early (e.g., financial 
or insurance reasons, transportation 
problems, or reason unknown) 
M !1;m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1149 Patient unable to complete the neck fs 
prom at initial evaluation and/or discharge 
due to blindness, illiteracy, severe mental 
incapacity or language incompatibility, and 
an adequate proxy is not available 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1150 Left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) less 
than or equal to 40% or documentation 
of moderately or severely depressed left 
ventricular systolic function 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1151 Patients with a history of heart 
transplant or with a left ventricular assist 
device (lvad) 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1141-M1166 
B M1152 Patients with a history of heart 
transplant or with a left ventricular assist 
device (lvad) 
Mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1153 Patient with diagnosis of osteoporosis 
on date of encounter 
M !1;m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1154 Hospice services provided to patient any 
time during the measurement period 
M !1;m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1155 Patient had anaphylaxis due to the 
pneumococcal vaccine any time during 
or before the measurement period 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1159 Hospice services provided to patient any 
time during the measurement period 
M !1;m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1160 Patient had anaphylaxis due to the 
meningococcal vaccine any time on or 
before the patient's 13th birthday 
o M m
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1161 Patient had anaphylaxis due to the tetanus, 
diphtheria or pertussis vaccine any time on 
or before the patient's 13th birthday o Mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1162 Patient had encephalitis due to the tetanus, 
diphtheria or pertussis vaccine any time on 
or before the patient's 13th birthday O M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1163 Patient had anaphylaxis due to the hpv 
vaccine any time on or before the patient's 
13th birthday 
O M !1;m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1164 Patients with dementia any time during 
the patient's history through the end of 
the measurement period 
M m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1165 Patients who use hospice services any 
time during the measurement period 
M !1;m 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1166 Pathology report for tissue specimens 
produced from wide local excisions or 
re-excisions 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M !1;m 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
!1;m MIPScode 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
399 
M1167-M1184 
B M1167 In hospice or using hospice services 
during the measurement period 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1168 Patient received an influenza vaccine on 
or between july 1 of the year prior to the 
measurement period and june 30 of the 
measurement period 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1169 Documentation of medical reason(s) 
for not administering influenza vaccine 
(e.g., prior anaphylaxis due to the 
influenza vaccine) 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1170 Patient did not receive an influenza vaccine 
on or between july 1 of the year prior to the 
measurement period and june 30 of the 
measurement period 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1171 Patient received at least one td vaccine 
or one tdap vaccine between nine years 
prior to the encounter and the end of the 
measurement period 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced t.Jy Parl B 
B M1172 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
administering td or tdap vaccine (e.g., prior 
anaphylaxis due to the td or tdap vaccine or 
history of encephalopathy within seven days 
after a previous dose of a td-containing 
vaccine) 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1173 Patient did not receive at least one td 
vaccine or one tdap vaccine between 
nine years prior to the encounter and the 
end of the measurement period 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A B M1174 Patient received at least two doses of 
the herpes zoster recombinant vaccine 
(at least 28 days apart) anytime on or after 
the patient's 50th birthday before or during 
the measurement period 
o M tllll1
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1175 Documentation of medical reason(s) 
for not administering zoster vaccine 
(e.g., prior anaphylaxis due to the zoster 
vaccine) 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
A B M1176 Patient did not receive at least two doses 
of the herpes zoster recombinant vaccine 
(at least 28 days apart) anytime on or after 
the patient's 50th birthday before or during 
the measurement period 
O M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1177 Patient received any pneumococcal 
conjugate or polysaccharide vaccine on 
or after their 60th birthday and before 
the end of the measurement period O M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1178 Documentation of medical reason(s) 
for not administering pneumococcal 
vaccine (e.g., prior anaphylaxis due to the 
pneumococcal vaccine) 
M Lim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1179 Patient did not receive any pneumococcal 
conjugate or polysaccharide vaccine, on 
or after their 60th birthday and before or 
during measurement period 
O M Lim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1180 Patients on immune checkpoint inhibitor 
therapy 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1181 Grade 2 or above diarrhea and/or 
grade 2 or above colitis 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1182 Patients not eligible due to pre-existing 
inflammatory bowel disease (ibd} 
(e.g., ulcerative colitis, 
crohn's disease) 
M Lim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1183 Documentation of immune checkpoint 
inhibitor therapy held and corticosteroids 
or immunosuppressants prescribed or 
administered 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1184 Documentation of medical reason(s) for not 
prescribing or administering corticosteroid or 
immunosuppressant treatment (e.g., allergy, 
intolerance, infectious etiology, pancreatic 
insufficiency, hyperthyroidism, prior bowel 
surgical interventions, celiac disease, 
receiving other medication, awaiting 
diagnostic workup results for alternative 
etiologies, other medical reasons/ 
contraindication) 
M tllll1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
Ui) Non-covered by Medicare 
El) Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic-
400 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
B M1185 Documentation of immune checkpoint 
inhibitor therapy not held and/or 
corticosteroids or immunosuppressants 
prescribed or administered was not 
performed, reason not given 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1186 Patients who have an order for or are 
receiving hospice or palliative care 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1187 Patients with a diagnosis of end stage 
renal disease (esrd) 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1188 Patients with a diagnosis of chronic 
kidney disease ( ckd) stage 5 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1189 Documentation of a kidney health evaluation 
defined by an estimated glomerular filtration 
rate (egfr) and urine albumin-creatinine 
ratio (uacr) performed 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1190 Documentation of a kidney health evaluation 
was not performed or defined by an 
estimated glomerular filtration rate (egfr) and 
urine albumin-creatinine ratio (uacr) 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1191 Hospice services provided to patient any 
time during the measurement period 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1192 Patients with an existing diagnosis of 
squamous cell carcinoma of the 
esophagus 
Mllilm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1193 Surgical pathology reports that 
contain impression or conclusion of or 
recommendation for testing of mmr by 
immunohistochemistry, msi by dna-based 
testing status, or both 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1194 Documentation of medical reason(s) 
surgical pathology reports did not 
contain impression or conclusion of or 
recommendation for testing of mmr by 
immunohistochemistry, msi by dna-based 
testing status, or both tests were not 
included (e.g., patient will not be treated 
with checkpoint inhibitor therapy, no residual 
carcinoma is present in the sample [tissue 
exhausted or status post neoadjuvant 
Ml 185 - M1202 
treatment], insufficient tumor 
for testing) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1195 Surgical pathology reports that do 
not contain impression or conclusion 
of or recommendation for testing of 
mmr by immunohistochemistry, msi 
by dna-based testing status, or both, 
reason not given 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1196 Initial (index visit) numeric rating scale 
(nrs), visual rating scale (vrs), or itchyquant 
assessment score of greater than or 
equal to 4 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A B M1197 Itch severity assessment score is reduced 
by 3 or more points from the initial 
(index) assessment score to the follow-up 
visit score 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
A B M1198 Itch severity assessment score was not 
reduced by at least 3 points from initial 
(index) score to the follow-up visit score 
or assessment was not completed during 
the follow-up encounter 
M lliim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1199 Patients receiving rrt 
M 11ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1200 Ace inhibitor (ace-i) or arb therapy 
prescribed during the measurement 
period 
M 11ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1201 Documentation of medical reason(s) 
for not prescribing ace inhibitor (ace-i) 
or arb therapy during the measurement 
period (e.g., pregnancy, history of 
angioedema to ace-i, other allergy to 
ace-i and arb, hyperkalemia or history of 
hyperkalemia while on ace-i or arb therapy, 
acute kidney injury due to ace-i or arb 
therapy), other medical reasons) 
M 11ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B M1202 Documentation of patient reason(s) for not 
prescribing ace inhibitor or arb therapy 
during the measurement period, (e.g., patient 
declined, other patient reasons) 
M 11ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
c1' Male only 
!?- Female only 
fl Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
Ell] Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
11m] MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
401 
M1203 - M1222 
S M1203 Ace inhibitor or arb therapy not prescribed 
during the measurement period, reason not 
given 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S M1204 Initial (index visit) numeric rating scale 
(nrs), visual rating scale (vrs), or itchyquant 
assessment score of greater than or 
equal to 4 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.A. S M1205 Itch severity assessment score is reduced 
by 3 or more points from the initial (index) 
assessment score to the follow-up 
visit score 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.A. S M1206 Itch severity assessment score was not 
reduced by at least 3 points from initial 
(index) score to the follow-up visit score 
or assessment was not completed during 
the follow-up encounter 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.A. S M1207 Patient is screened for food insecurity, 
housing instability, transportation 
needs, utility difficulties, and interpersonal 
safety 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
.A. S M1208 Patient is not screened for food insecurity, 
housing instability, transportation 
needs, utility difficulties, and interpersonal 
safety 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S M1209 At least two orders for high-risk medications 
from the same drug class, (table 4), 
without appropriate diagnoses 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
S M1210 At least two orders for high-risk medications 
from the same drug class, (table 4), 
not ordered 
M mm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1211 Most recent hemoglobin a1c level> 9.0% 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1212 Hemoglobin a1c level is missing, or was not
performed during the measurement period 
(12 months) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Medical Services (M0001-M 1370) 
• S M1213 No history of spirometry results with 
confirmed airflow obstruction (fev1/fvc 
< 70%) and present spirometry is>= 70% 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1214 Spirometry results with confirmed airflow 
obstruction (fev1/fvc < 70%) documented 
and reviewed 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1215 Documentation of medical reason(s) for 
not documenting and reviewing spirometry 
results (e.g., patients with dementia or 
tracheostomy) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1216 No spirometry results with confirmed airflow 
obstruction (fev1/fvc < 70%) documented 
and/or no spirometry performed with results 
documented during the encounter 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1217 Documentation of system reason(s) for 
not documenting and reviewing spirometry 
results (e.g., spirometry equipment not 
available at the time of the encounter) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1218 Patient has copd symptoms (e.g., dyspnea,
cough/sputum, wheezing) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1219 Anaphylaxis due to the vaccine on or before 
the date of the encounter 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1220 Dilated retinal eye exam with interpretation
by an ophthalmologist or optometrist or 
artificial intelligence (ai) interpretation 
documented and reviewed; with evidence of 
retinopathy 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• S M1221 Dilated retinal eye exam with interpretation
by an ophthalmologist or optometrist or 
artificial intelligence (ai) interpretation 
documented and reviewed; without evidence 
of retinopathy 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1222 Glaucoma plan of care not documented,
reason not otherwise specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
.A. Revised code 
Bi Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
1§1 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
402 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
• B M1223 Glaucoma plan of care documented
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1224 lntraocular pressure (iop) reduced by a value
less than 20% from the pre-intervention level 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1225 lntraocular pressure (iop) reduced by a value
of greater than or equal to 20% from the 
pre-intervention level 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1226 lop measurement not documented, reason
not otherwise specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1227 Evidence-based therapy was prescribed
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1228 Patient, who has a reactive hcv antibody
test, and has a follow up hcv viral test that 
detected hcv viremia, has hcv treatment 
initiated within 3 months of the reactive hcv 
antibody test 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1229 Patient, who has a reactive hcv antibody
test, and has a follow up hcv viral test that 
detected hcv viremia, is referred within 
1 month of the reactive hcv antibody test to a 
clinician who treats hcv infection 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1230 Patient has a reactive hcv antibody test and 
does not have a follow up hcv viral test, or 
patient has a reactive hcv antibody test and 
has a follow up hcv viral test that detects 
hcv viremia and is not referred to a clinician 
who treats hcv infection within 1 month and 
does not have hcv treatment initiated within 
3 months of the reactive hcv antibody test, 
reason not given 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1231 Patient receives hcv antibody test with
nonreactive result 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1232 Patient receives hcv antibody test with 
reactive result 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1233 Patient does not receive hcv antibody test
or patient does receive hcv antibody test but 
results not documented, reason not given 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1223- M1243 
• B M1234 Patient has a reactive hcv antibody test, and
has a follow up hcv viral test that does not 
detect hcv viremia 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1235 Documentation or patient report of hcv
antibody test or hcv rna test which occurred 
prior to the performance period 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1236 Baseline mrs > 2
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1237 Patient reason for not screening for food
insecurity, housing instability, transportation 
needs, utility difficulties, and interpersonal 
safety (e.g., patient declined or other patient 
reasons) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1238 Documentation that administration of 
second recombinant zoster vaccine could 
not occur during the performance period 
due to the recommended 2-6 month interval 
between doses (i.e, first dose received after 
october 31) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1239 Patient did not respond to the question of
patient felt heard and understood by this 
provider and team 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1240 Patient did not respond to the question
of patient felt this provider and team 
put my best interests first when making 
recommendations about my care 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1241 Patient did not respond to the question of 
patient felt this provider and team saw me as 
a person, not just someone with a medical 
problem 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1242 Patient did not respond to the question
of patient felt this provider and team 
understood what is important to me in my life 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1243 Patient provided a response other than
"completely true" for the question of patient 
felt heard and understood by this provider 
and team 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
| Female only 
0 Age 
A2-23 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
(1;Im MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
403 
M1244- M1262 
• 131 M1244 Patient provided a response other than 
"completely true" for the question of 
patient felt this provider and team put 
my best interests first when making 
recommendations about my care 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1245 Patient provided a response other than 
"completely true" for the question of patient 
felt this provider and team saw me as a 
person, not just someone with a medical 
problem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1246 Patient provided a response other than 
"completely true" for the question of patient 
felt this provider and team understood what 
is important to me in my life 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1247 Patient responded "completely true" for the 
question of patient felt this provider and 
team put my best interests first when making 
recommendations about my care 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1248 Patient responded "completely true" for the
question of patient felt this provider and team 
saw me as a person, not just someone with 
a medical problem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1249 Patient responded "completely true" for the 
question of patient felt this provider and team 
understood what is important to me in my life 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1250 Patient responded as "completely true" 
for the question of patient felt heard and 
understood by this provider and team 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1251 Patients for whom a proxy completed the 
entire hu survey on their behalf for any 
reason (no patient involvement) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1252 Patients who did not complete at least one of
the four patient experience hu survey items 
and return the hu survey within 60 days of 
the ambulatory palliative care visit 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Medical Services (M0001-M 1370) 
• 131 M1253 Patients who respond on the patient 
experience hu survey that they did not 
receive care by the listed ambulatory 
palliative care provider in the last 60 days 
(disavowal) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1254 Patients who were deceased when the hu
survey reached them 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1255 Patients who have another reason for visiting
the clinic [not prenatal or postpartum care] 
and have a positive pregnancy test but have 
not established the clinic as an ob provider 
(e.g., plan to terminate the pregnancy or 
seek prenatal services elsewhere) 
S? 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1256 Prior history of known cvd
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1257 Cvd risk assessment not performed or 
incomplete (e.g., cvd risk assessment was 
not documented), reason not otherwise 
specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1258 Cvd risk assessment performed, have a
documented calculated risk score 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1259 Patients listed on the kidney-pancreas
transplant waitlist or who received a living 
donor transplant within the first year following 
initiation of dialysis 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1260 Patients who were not listed on the kidney­
pancreas transplant waitlist or patients who 
did not receive a living donor transplant 
within the first year following initiation of 
dialysis 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1261 Patients that were on the kidney or kidney­
pancreas waitlist prior to initiation of dialysis 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• 131 M1262 Patients who had a transplant prior to 
initiation of dialysis 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!il Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
404 
CP.,. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
• B M1263 Patients in hospice on their initiation 
of dialysis date or during the month of 
evaluation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1264 Patients age 75 or older on their initiation of 
dialysis date 
0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
• B M1265 Cms medical evidence form 2728 for dialysis 
patients: initial form completed 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
• B M1266 Patients admitted to a skilled nursing facility 
(snf) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1267 Patients not on any kidney or kidney­
pancreas transplant waitlist or is not in active 
status on any kidney or kidney-pancreas 
transplant waitlist as of the last day of 
each month during the measurement period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1268 Patients on active status on any kidney
or kidney-pancreas transplant waitlist as 
of the last day of each month during the 
measurement period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1269 Receiving esrd mcp dialysis services 
by the provider on the last day of the 
reporting month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1270 Patients not on any kidney or kidney­
pancreas transplant waitlist as of the last day 
of each month during the measurement 
period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1271 Patients with dementia at any time prior to or
during the month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1272 Patients on any kidney or kidney-pancreas
transplant waitlist as of the last day of 
each month during the measurement period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1273 Patients who were admitted to a skilled 
nursing facility (snf) within one year 
of dialysis initiation according to the 
CMS-2728 form 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1263-M1284 
• B M1274 Patients who were admitted to a skilled
nursing facility (snf) during the month of 
evaluation were excluded from that month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
• B M1275 Patients determined to be in hospice were 
excluded from month of evaluation and the 
remainder of reporting period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
• B M1276 Bmi documented outside normal
parameters, no follow-up plan documented, 
no reason given 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1277 Colorectal cancer screening results 
documented and reviewed 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
• B M1278 Elevated or hypertensive blood pressure 
reading documented, and the indicated 
follow-up is documented 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1279 Elevated or hypertensive blood pressure
reading documented, indicated follow-up not 
documented, reason not given 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1280 Women who had a bilateral mastectomy or
who have a history of a bilateral mastectomy 
or for whom there is evidence of a right and 
a left unilateral mastectomy 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1281 Blood pressure reading not documented, 
reason not given 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1282 Patient screened for tobacco use and 
identified as a tobacco non-user 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1283 Patient screened for tobacco use and
identified as a tobacco user 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1284 Patients age 66 or older in institutional 
special needs plans (snp) or residing in long 
term care with pos code 32, 33, 34, 54, or 56 
for more than 90 consecutive days during the 
measurement period 
0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
!?- Female only 
O Age 
A2-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
lil!W MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
405 
M1285-M1304 
•B 
•B 
• B 
M1285 Screening, diagnostic, film, digital or digital 
breast tomosynthesis (3d) mammography 
results were not documented and reviewed, 
reason not otherwise specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1286 Bmi is documented as being outside of 
normal parameters, follow-up plan is not 
completed for documented medical reason 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1287 Bmi is documented below normal parameters 
and a follow-up plan is documented 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1288 Documented reason for not screening or 
recommending a follow-up for high blood 
pressure 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1289 Patient identified as tobacco user did not
receive tobacco cessation intervention during 
the measurement period or in the six months 
prior to the measurement period (counseling 
and/or pharmacotherapy) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1290 Patient not eligible due to active diagnosis of 
hypertension 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1291 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and a dispensed 
medication for dementia during the 
measurement period or the year prior to the 
measurement period 
O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1292 Patients 66 years of age and older with at 
least one claim/encounter for frailty during 
the measurement period and either one 
acute inpatient encounter with a diagnosis 
of advanced illness or two outpatient. 
observation, ed or nonacute inpatient 
encounters on different dates of service with 
an advanced illness diagnosis during the 
measurement period or the year prior to the 
measurement period 
O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1293 Bmi is documented above normal 
parameters and a follow-up plan is 
documented 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
•B 
•B 
•B 
•B 
•B 
•B 
•B 
•B 
Medical Services (M0001-M 1370) 
M1294 Normal blood pressure reading documented, 
follow-up not required 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1295 Patients with a diagnosis or past history of 
total colectomy or colorectal cancer 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1296 Bmi is documented within normal parameters 
and no follow-up plan is required 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1297 Bmi not documented due to medical 
reason or patient refusal of height or weight 
measurement 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1298 Documentation of patient pregnancy anytime 
during the measurement period prior to and 
including the current encounter 
i 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1299 Influenza immunization administered or 
previously received 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1300 Influenza immunization was not administered 
for reasons documented by clinician 
(e.g., patient allergy or other medical 
reasons, patient declined or other patient 
reasons, vaccine not available or other 
system reasons) 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1301 Patient identified as a tobacco user received 
tobacco cessation intervention during the 
measurement period or in the six months 
prior to the measurement period (counseling 
and/or pharmacotherapy) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1302 Screening, diagnostic, film digital or digital 
breast tomosynthesis (3d) mammography 
results documented and reviewed 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1303 Hospice services provided to patient any
time during the measurement period 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1304 Patient did not receive any pneumococcal
conjugate or polysaccharide vaccine on or 
after their 19th birthday and before the end 
of the measurement period 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
Ell Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic-
406 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
• B M1305 Patient received any pneumococcal
conjugate or polysaccharide vaccine on or 
after their 19th birthday and before the end 
of the measurement period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1306 Patient had anaphylaxis due to the 
pneumococcal vaccine any time during or 
before the measurement period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1307 Documentation stating the patient has 
received or is currently receiving palliative or 
hospice care 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1308 Influenza immunization was not 
administered, reason not given 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1309 Palliative care services provided to patient 
any time during the measurement period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1310 Patient screened for tobacco use and
received tobacco cessation intervention 
during the measurement period or in the 
six months prior to the measurement period 
(counseling, pharmacotherapy, or both), if 
identified as a tobacco user 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1311 Anaphylaxis due to the vaccine on or before
the date of the encounter 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1312 Patient not screened for tobacco use 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1313 Tobacco screening not performed or tobacco
cessation intervention not provided during 
the measurement period or in the six months 
prior to the measurement period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1314 Bmi not documented and no reason is given 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1315 Colorectal cancer screening results were 
not documented and reviewed; reason not 
otherwise specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1316 Current tobacco non-user 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1305-M1325 
• B M1317 Patients who are counseled on connection
with a esp and explicitly opt out 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1318 Patients who did not have documented 
contact with a esp for at least one of their 
screened positive hrsns within 60 days after 
screening or documentation that there was 
no contact with a esp 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1319 Patients who had documented contact with a 
esp for at least one of their screened positive 
hrsns within 60 days after screening 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1320 Patients who screened positive for at least 
1 of the 5 hrsns 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1321 Patients who were not seen within 7 weeks 
following the date of injection for follow up 
or who did not have a documented iop or 
no plan of care documented if the iop was 
>25 mm hg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B
• B M1322 Patients seen within 7 weeks following 
the date of injection and are screened for 
elevated intraocular pressure (iop) with 
tonometry with documented iop =<25 mm hg 
for injected eye 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1323 Patients seen within 7 weeks following 
the date of injection and are screened for 
elevated intraocular pressure (iop) with 
tonometry with documented iop >25 mm hg 
and a plan of care was documented 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1324 Patients who had an intravitreal or periocular 
corticosteroid injection (e.g., triamcinolone, 
preservative-free triamcinolone, 
dexamethasone, dexamethasone intravitreal 
implant, or fluocinolone intravitreal implant) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1325 Patients who were not seen for reasons 
documented by clinician for patient or 
medical reasons (e.g., inadequate time for 
follow-up, patients who received a prior 
intravitreal or periocular steroid injection 
within the last six (6) months and had a 
subsequent iop evaluation with iop <25mm 
hg within seven (7) weeks of treatment) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a" Male only 
,9. Female only 
8 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A· Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Ell) Paid under the DME fee schedule 
IIJm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
407 
M1326- M1347 
• B M1326 Patients with a diagnosis of hypotony
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1327 Patients who were not appropriately 
evaluated during the initial exam and/or who 
were not re-evaluated within 8 weeks 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1328 Patients with a diagnosis of acute vitreous 
hemorrhage 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1329 Patients with a post-operative encounter of 
the eye with the acute pvd within 2 weeks 
before the initial encounter or 8 weeks after 
initial acute pvd encounter 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1330 Documentation of patient reason(s) for not 
having a follow up exam (e.g., inadequate 
time for follow up) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1331 Patients who were appropriately evaluated 
during the initial exam and were re-evaluated 
no later than 8 weeks from initial exam 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1332 Patients who were not appropriately
evaluated during the initial exam and/or who 
were not re-evaluated within 2 weeks 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1333 Acute vitreous hemorrhage 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1334 Patients with a post-operative encounter of
the eye with the acute pvd within 2 weeks 
before the initial encounter or 2 weeks after 
initial acute pvd encounter 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1335 Documentation of patient reason(s) for not
having a follow up exam (e.g., inadequate 
time for follow up) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1336 Patients who were appropriately evaluated 
during the initial exam and were re-evaluated 
no later than 2 weeks 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1337 Acute pvd
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
• B M1338 Patients who had follow-up assessment 30 
to 180 days after the index assessment who 
did not demonstrate positive improvement or 
maintenance of functioning scores during the 
performance period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1339 Patients who had follow-up assessment
30 to 180 days after the index assessment 
who demonstrated positive improvement or 
maintenance of functioning scores during the 
performance period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1340 Index assessment completed using the
12-item whodas 2.0 or sds during the
denominator identification period
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes
Service not separately priced by Part B
• B M1341 Patients who did not have a follow-up
assessment or did not have an assessment 
within 30 to 180 days after the index 
assessment during the performance period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1342 Patients who died during the performance 
period 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1343 Patients who are at pam level 4 at baseline
or patients who are flagged with extreme 
straight line response sets on the pam 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1344 Patients who did not have a baseline pam
score and/or a second score within 6 to 
12 month of baseline pam score 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1345 Patients who had a baseline pam score 
and a second score within 6 to 12 month of 
baseline pam score 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1346 Patients who did not have a net increase in 
pam score of at least 6 points within a 6 to 
12 month period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1347 Patients who achieved a net increase in pam
score of at least 3 points in a 6 to 12 month 
period (passing) 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
D Not payable by Medicare 
.&. Revised code 
la Carrier judgment 
I!) Special coverage instructions apply 
Ii Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
408 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Medical Services (M0001-M 1370) 
• B M1348 Patients who achieved a net increase in pam 
score of at least 6-points in a 6 to 12 month 
period ( excellent) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1349 Patients who did not have a net increase 
in pam score of at least 3 points within 6 to 
12 month period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1350 Patients who had a completed suicide
safety plan initiated, reviewed or updated in 
collaboration with their clinician (concurrent 
or within 24 hours) of the index clinical 
encounter 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1351 Patients who had a suicide safety plan 
initiated, reviewed, or updated and reviewed 
and updated in collaboration with the patient 
and their clinician concurrent or within 
24 hours of clinical encounter and within 
120 days after initiation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1352 Suicidal ideation and/or behavior symptoms
based on the c-ssrs or equivalent 
assessment 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1353 Patients who did not have a completed
suicide safety plan initiated, reviewed or 
updated in collaboration with their clinician 
(concurrent or within 24 hours) of the index 
clinical encounter 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1354 Patients who did not have a suicide safety 
plan initiated, reviewed, or updated or 
reviewed and updated in collaboration with 
the patient and their clinician concurrent or 
within 24 hours of clinical encounter and 
within 120 days after initiation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1355 Suicide risk based on their clinician's 
evaluation or a clinician-rated tool 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1356 Patients who died during the measurement 
period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1348- M1367 
• B M1357 Patients who had a reduction in suicidal
ideation and/or behavior upon follow-up 
assessment within 120 days of index 
assessment 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1358 Patients who did not have a reduction in
suicidal ideation and/or behavior upon 
follow-up assessment within 120 days of 
index assessment 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1359 Index assessment during the denominator
period when the suicidal ideation and/or 
behavior symptoms or increased suicide risk 
by clinician determination occurs and a non­
zero c-ssrs score is obtained 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1360 Suicidal ideation and/or behavior symptoms
based on the c-ssrs 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1361 Suicide risk based on their clinician's 
evaluation or a clinician-rated tool 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1362 Patients who died during the measurement
period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1363 Patients who did not have a follow-up 
assessment within 120 days of the index 
assessment 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1364 Calculated 10-year ascvd risk score of
= 20 percent during the performance period 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1365 Patient encounter during the performance
period with hospice and palliative care 
specialty code 17 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1366 Focusing on women's health mips value 
pathway 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• B M1367 Quality care for the treatment of ear, nose, 
and throat disorders mips value pathway 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Maleonly 
ff Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
E1JJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Stat us indicator 
lilI]ltJ MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
409 
Ml 368- Ml 370 
Medical Services (M0001-M1370) 
410 
M1368 Prevention and treatment of infectious 
disorders including hepatitis c and hiv mips 
value pathway 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1369 Quality care in mental health and substance 
use disorders mips value pathway 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
M1370 Rehabilitative support for musculoskeletal 
care mips value pathway 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
... Revised code a Carrier judgment 
El Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El) Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Pathology and Laboratory Services (P2O28-P9615) 
PATHOLOGY AND LABORATORY SERVICES 
(P2028-P9615) 
LABORATORY TESTS OF BLOOD AND HAIR (P2028-P2038) 
l!J P2028 Cephalin flocculation, blood 
A 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule} 
Other carrier priced 
1!J P2029 Congo red, blood 
A 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule} 
Other carrier priced 
m P2031 Hair analysis (excluding arsenic) 
E1 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J P2033 Thymol turbidity, blood 
A 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Other carrier priced 
l!J P2038 Mucoprotein, blood (seromucoid) (medical 
necessity procedure) 
A 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
PAP SMEARS (P3000, P3001) 
1!J P3000 Screening Papanicolaou smear, cervical or 
vaginal, up to three smears, by technician 
under physician supervision 
i A 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
l!J P3001 Screening Papanicolaou smear, cervical 
or vaginal, up to three smears, requiring 
interpretation by physician 
i B 
BETOS: T1 G 
Lab tests - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
URINE BACTERIAL CULTURE AND SENSITIVITY STUDIES 
(P7001) 
D P7001 Culture, bacterial, urine; quantitative, 
sensitivity study 
E 1 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BLOOD AND BLOOD PRODUCTS, WITH ASSOCIATED 
PROCEDURES (P9010-P9100) 
1!J P9010 Blood (whole), for transfusion, per unit 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule} 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
R 
P2028 - P9025 
l!J P9011 Blood, split unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03; 2005, 02 
1!J P9012 Cryoprecipitate, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
l!J P9016 Red blood cells, leukocytes reduced, 
each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q4; 2004, Q3 
1!J P9017 Fresh frozen plasma (single donor), frozen 
within 8 hours of collection, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03 
1!J P9019 Platelets, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule} 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
1!J P9020 Platelet rich plasma, each unit 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule} 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
1!J P9021 Red blood cells, each unit 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule} 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q4; 2004, Q3 
1!J P9022 Red blood cells, washed, each unit 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule} 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03 
1!J P9023 Plasma, pooled multiple donor, solvent/ 
detergent treated, frozen, each unit 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
[!I P9025 Plasma, cryoprecipitate reduced, 
pathogen reduced, each unit 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
R 
R 
R 
R 
R 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator
E!J] Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
c,m MIPScode 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
411 
P9026 - P9047 
Pathology and Laboratory Services (P2028-P9615) 
412 
B P9026 Cryoprecipitated fibrinogen complex, 
pathogen reduced, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
l!J P9031 Platelets, leukocytes reduced, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
l!J P9032 Platelets, irradiated, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3; 2005, Q2 
l!J P9033 Platelets, leukocytes reduced, irradiated, 
each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3; 2005, Q2 
l!J P9034 Platelets, pheresis, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
1!J P9035 Platelets, pheresis, leukocytes reduced, 
each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
1!J P9036 Platelets, pheresis, irradiated, each unit 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3; 2005, Q2 
1!J P9037 Platelets, pheresis, leukocytes reduced, 
R 
irradiated, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3; 2005, Q2 
1!J P9038 Red blood cells, irradiated, each unit 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3; 2005, Q2 
R 
l!J P9039 Red blood cells, deglycerolized, each unit R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
1!J P9040 Red blood cells, leukocytes reduced, 
irradiated, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3; 2005, 02 
B P9041 Infusion, albumin (human), 
5%,50 ml 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Drugs: ALBUMIN (HUMAN), ALBUMINAR-5, 
ALBUMINEX 5%, ALBURX, ALBUTEIN 5%, 
ALBUTEIN®, ALBUTEIN® 5% ALBUMIN 500 
ML, BUMINATE, PLASBUMIN-5 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
1!J P9043 Infusion, plasma protein fraction (human), 
5%, 50 ml 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
1!J P9044 Plasma, cryoprecipitate reduced, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
B P9045 Infusion, albumin (human), 
5%, 250 ml 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Reasonable charge 
Drugs: ALBUKED 5, ALBUMIN (HUMAN), 
ALBUMINAR-5, ALBUMINEX 5%, ALBURX, 
ALBUTEIN® 5% ALBUMIN 500 ML, 
ALBUTEIN® 5%, BUMINATE, PLASBUMIN-5 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1; 2004, 03 
B P9046 Infusion, albumin (human), 
25%, 20 ml 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Reasonable charge 
Drugs: ALBUKED 25, ALBUMIN (HUMAN), 
ALBUMINAR-25, ALBUMINEX 25%, 
ALBURX, ALBUTEIN, ALBUTEIN 25%, 
ALBUTEIN®, ALBUTEIN® 25% ALBUMIN 
100 ML, BUMINATE, FLEXBUMIN, 
KEDBUMIN, PLASBUMIN-25 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01; 2004, Q3 
B P9047 Infusion, albumin (human), 
25%, 50 ml 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Reasonable charge 
Drugs: ALBUKED 25, ALBUMIN (HUMAN), 
ALBUMINAR-25, ALBUMINEX 25%, 
ALBURX, ALBUTEIN, ALBUTEIN® 25%, 
ALBUTEIN® 25% ALBUMIN 100 ML, 
BUMINATE, FLEXBUMIN, HUMAN 
ALBUMIN GRIFOLS, KEDBUMIN, 
PLASBUMIN-25 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1; 2004, 03 
• Newcode
D Not payable by Mediare 
A. Revised code
B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
m Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Assaciation. Alf rights reserved. 
Pathology and Laboratory Services (P2028-P9615) 
B P9048 Infusion, plasma protein fraction (human), 
5%, 250 ml 
R 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01; 2004, 03 
B P9050 Granulocytes, pheresis, 
each unit 
KS ASC E2 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Reasonable charge 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01; 2004, 03 
B P9051 Whole blood or red blood cells, leukocytes 
reduced, CMV-negative, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03 
l:J P9052 Platelets, HLA-matched leukocytes reduced, 
apheresis/pheresis, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03 
B P9053 Platelets, pheresis, leukocytes reduced, 
CMV-negative, irradiated, each unit
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03; 2005, 02 
B P9054 Whole blood or red blood cells, leukocytes 
reduced, frozen, deglycerol, washed, 
each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2004, Q3 
B P9055 Platelets, leukocytes reduced, CMV­
negative, apheresis/pheresis, each unit 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Cllnlc: 2004, 03 
EJ P9056 Whole blood, leukocytes reduced, 
irradiated, each unit 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Cllnlc: 2004, 03; 2006, 02 
l:J P9057 Red blood cells, frozen/deglycerolized/ 
washed, leukocytes reduced, irradiated, 
R 
R 
each unit 
R 
P9048 - P9100 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03; 2005, 02 
B P9058 Red blood cells, leukocytes reduced, 
CMV-negative, irradiated, each unit
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03; 2005, 02 
B P9059 Fresh frozen plasma between 8-24 hours 
of collection, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03 
B P9060 Fresh frozen plasma, donor retested, 
each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2004, 03 
l:J P9070 Plasma, pooled multiple donor, pathogen 
reduced, frozen, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B P9071 Plasma (single donor), pathogen reduced, 
frozen, each unit 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
B P9073 Platelets, pheresis, pathogen-reduced, 
each unit 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
Statute: 1833T 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1 
B P9099 Blood component or product not otherwise 
R 
classified 
R 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Reasonable charge 
B P9100 Pathogen(s) test for platelets 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 01 
s 
ff' Male only 
II, Female only 
O Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 • Z3 ., ASC Payment indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A • Y = APC 5tatlJg Indicator 
IIJli) MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
413 
P9603 - P9615 
SPECIMEN COLLECTION, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE 
(P9603, P9604) 
El P9603 Travel allowance one way in connection with 
medically necessary laboratory specimen 
collection drawn from home bound or nursing 
home bound patient; prorated miles actually 
travelled 
A 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Price established by carriers 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-16, 60.2 
El P9604 Travel allowance one way in connection with 
medically necessary laboratory specimen 
collection drawn from home bound or nursing 
home bound patient; prorated trip charge. 
A 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Price established by carriers 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-16, 60.2 
SPECIMEN COLLECTION, CATHETERIZATION (P9612, P9615) 
El P9612 Catheterization for collection of specimen, 
single patient, all places of service 
A 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2007, 03; 2009, 02 
El P9615 Catheterization for collection of specimen (s) 
(multiple patients) 
N 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Other carrier priced 
Pathology and Laboratory Services (P2028-P961 S) 
• Newcode 
/ Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li3 Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
414 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Al/ rights reserved. 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
TEMPORARY CODES (Q0035-Q9992) 
MISCELLANEOUS DRUGS AND TESTS (Q0035-Q0144) 
l?J Q0035 Cardiokymography 
Q1 
BETO$: T2D 
Other tests - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
I!) Q0081 Infusion therapy, using other than 
chemotherapeutic drugs, per visit 
B 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q4; 2002, Q2; 2002, 
02; 2002, 01; 2004, 04; 2004, Q2; 2004, 
Q1; 2005, Q1; 2006, Q4 
B Q0083 Chemotherapy administration by other than 
infusion technique only (e.g., subcutaneous, 
intramuscular, push), per visit 
B 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1; 2002, Q1; 2004, 
Q4; 2004, Q1; 2005, Q1; 2006, 04 
l?J Q0084 Chemotherapy administration by infusion 
technique only, per visit 
B ·
BETOS: 010 Chemotherapy 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01; 2002, Q1; 2004, 
Q4; 2004, 02; 2004, 01; 2005, 01; 2006, 04 
B Q0085 Chemotherapy administration by both 
infusion technique and other technique(s) 
(e.g., subcutaneous, intramuscular, push), 
per visit 
B 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1; 2002, 01; 2004, 
Q4; 2004, Q1; 2006, Q4 
l?J Q0091 Screening Papanicolaou smear; obtaining, 
preparing and conveyance of cervical or 
vaginal smear to laboratory 
!?- S 
BETOS: P6C Minor procedures - other 
(Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established using national RVUs 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q4; 2008, 04 
I!) Q0092 Set-up portable X-ray equipment 
N 
BETOS: 11 F Standard imaging - other 
Price established using national RVUs 
B Q0111 Wet mounts, including preparations of 
vaginal, cervical or skin specimens 
A 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
B Q0112 All potassium hydroxide (KOH) 
preparations 
A 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
Q0035 - QOl 63 
B Q0113 Pinworm examinations 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
A 
B Q0114 Fern test 
!?- o A 
BETO$: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
B Q0115 Post-coital direct, qualitative examinations of 
vaginal or cervical mucous 
!?- A 
BETOS: T1 H Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price subject to national limitation amount 
B Q0138 Injection, ferumoxytol, for treatment of 
iron deficiency anemia, 1 mg 
(non-ESRD use) 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: FERAHEME, FERUMOXYTOL 
B Q0139 Injection, ferumoxytol, for treatment of iron 
deficiency anemia, 1 mg (for ESRD 
on dialysis) 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: FERAHEME, FERUMOXYTOL 
li!jl Q0144 Azithromycin dihydrate, oral, capsules/ 
powder, 1 gram 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
CHEMOTHERAPY ANTI-EMETIC MEDICATIONS 
(Q0161-Q0181), SEE ALSO CHEMOTHERAPY MEDICATIONS 
(Q5101) 
B Q0161 Chlorpromazine hydrochloride, 5 mg, 
oral, FDA approved prescription anti­
emetic, for use as a complete therapeutic 
substitute for an IV anti-emetic at the time of 
chemotherapy treatment, not to exceed 
a 48 hour dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 02; 2014, 01 
I!) Q0162 Ondansetron 1 mg, oral, FDA approved 
prescription anti-emetic, for use as a 
complete therapeutic substitute for an IV 
anti-emetic at the time of chemotherapy 
treatment, not to exceed a 48 hour 
dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
Drugs: ONDANSETRON, ONDANSETRON 
HCL, ONDANSETRON HYDROCHLORIDE, 
ONDANSETRON ODT, ZOFRAN 
l!J Q0163 Diphenhydramine hydrochloride, 50 mg, oral, 
FDA approved prescription anti-emetic, for 
use as a complete therapeutic substitute for 
an IV anti-emetic at time of chemotherapy 
treatment not to exceed a 48 hour 
dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
d" Male only 
!?- Female only 
fl Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
liiII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
Lm) MIPS code
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
415 
Q0164-Q0221 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
416 
Statute: 4557 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1; 2008, Q1; 2009, 
Q2; 2012, Q2; 2019, Q4; 2020, Q1 
El Q0164 Prochlorperazine maleate, 5 mg, oral, FDA 
approved prescription anti-emetic, for use 
as a complete therapeutic substitute for an 
IV anti-emetic at the time of chemotherapy 
treatment, not to exceed a 48 hour 
dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
6J Q0166 Granisetron hydrochloride, 1 mg, oral, FDA 
approved prescription anti-emetic, for use 
as a complete therapeutic substitute for an 
IV anti-emetic at the time of chemotherapy 
treatment, not to exceed a 24 hour 
dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
6J Q0167 Dronabinol, 2.5 mg, oral, FDA approved 
prescription anti-emetic, for use as a 
complete therapeutic substitute for an IV 
anti-emetic at the time of chemotherapy 
treatment, not to exceed a 48 hour 
dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N. 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
Drugs: DRONABINOL, MARINOL 
6J Q0169 Promethazine hydrochloride, 12.5 mg, 
oral, FDA approved prescription anti­
emetic, for use as a complete therapeutic 
substitute for an IV anti-emetic at the time of 
chemotherapy treatment, not to exceed 
a 48 hour dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
6J Q0173 Trimethobenzamide hydrochloride, 250 mg, 
oral, FDA approved prescription anti­
emetic, for use as a complete therapeutic 
substitute for an IV anti-emetic at the time of 
chemotherapy treatment, not to exceed 
a 48 hour dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
6J Q0174 Thiethylperazine maleate, 10 mg, oral, FDA 
approved prescription anti-emetic, for use 
as a complete therapeutic substitute for an 
IV anti-emetic at the time of chemotherapy 
treatment, not to exceed a 48 hour 
dosage regimen 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
6J 00175 Perphenazine, 4 mg, oral, FDA approved 
prescription anti-emetic, for use as a 
complete therapeutic substitute for an IV 
anti-emetic at the time of chemotherapy 
treatment, not to exceed a 48 hour 
dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
6J Q0177 Hydroxyzine pamoate, 25 mg, oral, FDA 
approved prescription anti-emetic, for use 
as a complete therapeutic substitute for an 
IV anti-emetic at the time of chemotherapy 
treatment, not to exceed a 48 hour 
dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
6J Q0180 Dolasetron mesylate, 100 mg, oral, FDA 
approved prescription anti-emetic, for use 
as a complete therapeutic substitute for an 
IV anti-emetic at the time of chemotherapy 
treatment, not to exceed a 24 hour 
dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
6J Q0181 Unspecified oral dosage form, FDA 
approved prescription anti-emetic, for use 
as a complete therapeutic substitute for a 
IV anti-emetic at the time of chemotherapy 
treatment, not to exceed a 48 hour 
dosage regimen 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Statute: 4557 
Coding Clinic: 2006, Q1; 2008, Q1; 2009, 
Q2;2012,Q2;2019,Q4;2020,Q1 
COVID-19 INFUSION THERAPY (Q0220-Q0249) 
B Q0220 Injection, tixagevimab and cilgavimab, for 
the pre-exposure prophylaxis only, for certain 
adults and pediatric individuals (12 years of 
age and older weighing at least 40kg) with 
no known sars-cov-2 exposure, who either 
have moderate to severely compromised 
immune systems or for whom vaccination 
with any available covid-19 vaccine is not 
recommended due to a history of severe 
adverse reaction to a covid-19 vaccine( s) 
and/or covid-19 vaccine component(s), 
300 mg 
L 1 0 ASC L 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
B Q0221 Injection, tixagevimab and cilgavimab, for 
the pre-exposure prophylaxis only, for certain 
adults and pediatric individuals (12 years of 
age and older weighing at least 40kg) with 
no known sars-cov-2 exposure, who either 
have moderate to severely compromised 
immune systems or for whom vaccination 
with any available covid-19 vaccine is not 
recommended due to a history of severe 
adverse reaction to a covid-19 vaccine(s) 
and/or covid-19 vaccine component(s), 
600 mg 
L1 OASC L 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
• Newcode
D Not payable by Medicare 
.A. Revised code 
l!I Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
£ii Non-covered by Medicare 
E) Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
B Q0222 Injection, bebtelovimab, 175 mg L 1 0 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
B Q0240 Injection, casirivimab and imdevimab, 
600 mg 
L 1 0 ASC L 
BETOS: O1G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03; 2021, 04 
81 Q0243 Injection, casirivimab and imdevimab, 
2400 mg 
L 1 ASC L 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 04; 2021, 01 
B Q0244 Injection, casirivimab and imdevimab, 
1200 mg 
L 1 ASC L 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04 
B Q0245 Injection, bamlanivimab and etesevimab, 
2100 mg 
L1 ASC L 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01 
B Q0247 Injection, sotrovimab, 500 mg 
L 1 ASC L 
BETOS: O1G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03 
B Q0249 Injection, tocilizumab, for hospitalized 
adults and pediatric patients (2 years of 
age and older) with covid-19 who are 
receiving systemic corticosteroids and 
require supplemental oxygen, non-invasive 
or invasive mechanical ventilation, or 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
(ECMO) only, 1 mg 
L 1 ASC L 
BETOS: 01 G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 04 
VENTRICULAR ASSIST DEVICES (Q0477-Q0509) 
[?J Q0477 Power module patient cable for use with 
electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular 
assist device, replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
[?J Q0478 Power adapter for use with electric or 
electric/pneumatic ventricular assist 
device, vehicle type 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
[?J Q0479 Power module for use with electric or 
electric/pneumatic ventricular assist 
device, replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
[?J Q0480 Driver for use with pneumatic ventricular 
assist device, replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0481 Microprocessor control unit for use 
with electric ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
Q0222 - Q0492
[?J Q0482 Microprocessor control unit for use with 
electric/pneumatic combination ventricular 
assist device, replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0483 Monitor/display module for use with electric 
ventricular assist device, replacement 
only 
EDA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0484 Monitor/display module for use with electric 
or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist 
device, replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0485 Monitor control cable for use with electric 
ventricular assist device, replacement 
only 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0486 Monitor control cable for use with electric/ 
pneumatic ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0487 Leads (pneumatic/electrical) for use with any 
type electric/pneumatic ventricular assist 
device, replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0488 Power pack base for use with electric 
ventricular assist device, replacement only A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0489 Power pack base for use with electric/ 
pneumatic ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0490 Emergency power source for use 
with electric ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0491 Emergency power source for use with 
electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
[?J Q0492 Emergency power supply cable for use 
with electric ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
ED A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
d' Male only 
® Female only 
t) Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ClW MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
417 
Q0493-Q0S16 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
418 
I!) Q0493 Emergency power supply cable for use with 
electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
ElII A 
BET0S: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
I!) Q0494 Emergency hand pump for use with electric 
or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist 
device, replacement only 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
I!) Q0495 Battery/power pack charger for use with 
electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular 
assist device, replacement only 
Elli A 
BET0S: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
I!) Q0496 Battery, other than lithium-ion, for use with 
electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular 
assist device, replacement only 
liLlill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
I!) Q0497 Battery clips for use with electric or electric/ 
pneumatic ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
I!) Q0498 Holster for use with electric or electric/ 
pneumatic ventricular assist device. 
replacement only 
liLlill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
I!) Q0499 Belt/vest/bag for use to carry external 
peripheral components of any type 
ventricular assist device, replacement 
only 
liLlill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
I!) QOSOO Filters for use with electric or electric/ 
pneumatic ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
liLlill A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
I!) Q0501 Shower cover for use with electric or 
electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
liLlill A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
.I!) Q0502 Mobility cart for pneumatic ventricular assist 
device, replacement only 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03 
l!l Q0503 Battery for pneumatic ventricular assist 
device, replacement only, each 
liLlill A 
BET0S: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
I!) Q0504 Power adapter for pneumatic ventricular 
assist device, replacement only, vehicle 
type 
ElII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Coding Clinic: 2005, Q3 
I!) Q0506 Battery, lithium-ion, for use with electric or 
electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, 
replacement only 
liLlill A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I!) Q0507 Miscellaneous supply or accessory for use 
with an external ventricular assist device 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I!) Q0508 Miscellaneous supply or accessory for use 
with an implanted ventricular assist device A 
BET0S: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I!) Q0509 Miscellaneous supply or accessory for use 
with any implanted ventricular assist device 
for which payment was not made under 
Medicare Part A 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
PHARMACY SUPPLY AND DISPENSING FEES (Q0510-Q0514) 
I!) Q0510 Pharmacy supply fee for initial 
immunosuppressive drug(s), first month 
following transplant 
B 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
I!) Q0511 Pharmacy supply fee for oral anti-cancer, 
oral anti-emetic or immunosuppressive 
drug(s); for the first prescription in a 30-day 
period 
B 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
I!) Q0512 Pharmacy supply fee for oral anti-cancer, 
oral anti-emetic or immunosuppressive 
drug(s); for a subsequent prescription in a 
30-day period
B 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
I!) Q0513 Pharmacy dispensing fee for inhalation 
drug(s); per 30 days 
B 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
I!) Q0514 Pharmacy dispensing fee for inhalation 
drug(s); per 90 days 
B 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
MISCELLANEOUS DRUG AND NEW TECHNOLOGY CODES 
(Q0515-Q2028) 
I!) Q0515 Injection, sermorelin acetate, 
1 microgram 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
K5ASC E2 
• I!) Q0516 Pharmacy supplying fee for hiv pre-exposure
prophylaxis fda approved prescription drug, 
per 30-days 
BET0S: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1861 (ddd) 
• New code
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment 
I!) Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
B Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary Codes (Q003S-Q9992) 
• l!J Q0517 Pharmacy supplying fee for hiv pre-exposure
prophylaxis fda approved prescription drug, 
per 60-days 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1861 ( ddd) 
• l!J Q0518 Pharmacy supplying fee for hiv pre-exposure
prophylaxis fda approved prescription drug, 
per 90-days 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1861 ( ddd) 
l!J 01004 New technology intraocular lens category 4 
as defined in Federal Register notice 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Other carrier priced 
l!J 01005 New technology intraocular lens category 5 
as defined in Federal Register notice 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Other carrier priced 
l!J Q2004 Irrigation solution for treatment of bladder 
calculi, for example renacidin, per 
500 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1861 S28 
l!J 02009 Injection, fosphenytoin, 50 mg phenytoin 
equivalent 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Statute: 1861S2B 
l!J Q2017 Injection, teniposide, 50 mg 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Statute: 1861 S2B 
N1 ASC N 
l!J Q2026 Injection, Radiesse, 0.1 ml 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2010, Q3 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 260.2.1; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 260.2.2 
l!J 02028 Injection, sculptra, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
INFLUENZA VIRUS VACCINES (Q2034-Q2039) 
l!J 02034 Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, for 
intramuscular use (Agriflu) 
L 1 ASC L 
BETOS: O1G lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q3 
l!J Q2035 Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, when 
administered to individuals 3 years of 
age and older, for intramuscular use 
(Afluria) 
L1 0 ASC L 
BETOS: O1G 
lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2010, Q4 
l!J Q2036 Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, when 
administered to individuals 3 years of 
age and older, for intramuscular use 
(Flulaval) 
L 1 0 ASC L 
BETOS: O1G lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2010, Q4 
QOS 17 - Q2050 
l!J Q2037 Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, when 
administered to individuals 3 years of 
age and older, for intramuscular use 
(Fluvirin) 
L 1 0 ASC L 
BETOS: O1G lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2010, Q4 
l!J 02038 Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, when 
administered to individuals 3 years of 
age and older, for intramuscular use 
(Fluzone) 
L1 0 ASC L 
BETOS: 01 G lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2010, Q4 
l!J Q2039 Influenza virus vaccine, not otherwise 
specified 
L 1 ASC L 
BETOS: O1G lmmunizationsNaccinations 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2010, Q4; 2017, 
Q4 
OTHER DRUGS AND SERVICE FEES (Q2041-Q3031) 
B Q2041 Axicabtagene ciloleucel, up to 200 million 
autologous anti-cd 19 car positive viable 
t cells, including leukapheresis and dose 
preparation procedures, per therapeutic 
dose 
K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: YESCARTA 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q1; 2018, Q1; 2018, 
Q2; 2019, Q2 
B 02042 Tisagenlecleucel, up to 600 million 
car-positive viable t cells, including 
leukapheresis and dose preparation 
procedures, per therapeutic dose 
K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: KYMRIAH (ADULT DOSE), 
KYMRIAH (PEDIATRIC DOSE) 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q1; 2019, Q1; 2019, 
Q2 
l!J Q2043 Sipuleucel-T, minimum of 50 million 
autologous CD54+ cells activated with 
PAP-GM-CSF, including leukapheresis 
and all other preparatory procedures, 
per infusion 
K2 d' ASC K 
BETOS: P1 G Major procedure - other 
Drugs: PROVENGE® 
Coding Cllnlc: 2012, Q1; 2012, Q2 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 280.5; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 280.4; 100-4, Chapter-32, 280.2 
B 02049 Injection, doxorubicin hydrochloride, 
liposomal, imported Lipodox, 10 mgK2 ASC K 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q3 
l!J Q2050 Injection, doxorubicin hydrochloride, 
liposomal, not otherwise specified, 
10 mg 
K2ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: DOXIL, DOXORUBICIN HCL, 
LIPOSOMAL, 
Coding Clinic: 2013, Q3; 2013, Q4 
cl' Maleonly 
ff Femaleonly 
0 Age 
A2-Z3=ASCPaymentindicalor 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
1mJ MIPScode 
ASC = ASC App roved Procedure 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
419 
Q2052 - Q4011 
Temporary Codes (Q003S-Q9992) 
420 
B Q2052 Services, supplies, and accessories used 
in the home for the administration of 
intravenous immune globulin (ivig) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q2 
B Q2053 Brexucabtagene autoleucel, up to 200 million 
autologous anti-cd 19 car positive viable 
t cells, including leukapheresis and dose 
preparation procedures, per therapeutic 
dose 
G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: T ECARTUS 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q1 
B Q2054 Lisocabtagene maraleucel, up to 110 million 
autologous anti-cd19 car-positive viable 
t cells, including leukapheresis and dose 
preparation procedures, per therapeutic 
dose 
G 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: BREYANZI 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
B Q2055 ldecabtagene vicleucel, up to 460 million 
autologous b-cell maturation antigen (bcma) 
directed car-positive t cells, including 
leukapheresis and dose preparation 
procedures, per therapeutic dose 
G 
BETOS: 01 D Chemotherapy 
Drugs: ABECMA 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q1 
B Q2056 Ciltacabtagene autoleucel, up to 100 million 
autologous b-cell maturation antigen (bcma) 
directed car-positive t cells, including 
leukapheresis and dose preparation 
procedures, per therapeutic dose 
O G 
BETOS: 010 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: CARVYKTI 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q4 
EJ Q3001 Radioelements for brachytherapy, any type, 
each 
B 
BETOS: P7A Oncology - radiation therapy 
Other carrier priced 
B Q3014 Telehealth originating site facility fee 
A 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
EJ Q3027 Injection, interferon beta-1a, 1 mcg for 
intramuscular use 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AVONEX, AVONEX PEN 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
0 Q3028 Injection, interferon beta-1a, 1 mcg for 
subcutaneous use 
E1 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EJ Q3031 Collagen skin test 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Price established using national RVUs 
CAST AND SPLINT SUPPLIES (Q4001-Q4051) 
B Q4001 Casting supplies, body cast adult, with or 
without head, plaster 
l1I1Jl O B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2 
B Q4002 Cast supplies, body cast adult, with or 
without head, fiberglass 
l1I1Jl O B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4003 Cast supplies, shoulder cast, adult 
(11 years + ), plaster 
l1I1Jl O B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4004 Cast supplies, shoulder cast, adult 
( 11 years + ), fiberglass 
l1I1Jl O B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4005 Cast supplies, long arm cast, adult 
(11 years+), plaster 
l1I1Jl OB 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Short arm cast 
B Q4006 Cast supplies, long arm cast, adult 
(11 years+), fiberglass 
l1I1Jl OB 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4007 Cast supplies, long arm cast, pediatric 
(0-10 years), plaster 
l1I1Jl OB 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4008 Cast supplies, long arm cast, pediatric 
(0-10 years), fiberglass 
l1I1Jl OB 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4009 ·cast supplies, short arm cast, adult 
(11 years + ), plaster 
l1I1Jl o B 
BETOS: D 1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4010 Cast supplies, short arm cast, adult 
(11 years+), fiberglass 
l1I1Jl o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4011 Cast supplies, short arm cast, pediatric 
(0-10 years), plaster 
l1I1Jl o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
B Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
ml 04012 Cast supplies, short arm cast, pediatric 
(0-1 0 years), fiberglass 
Ello B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml 04013 Cast supplies, gauntlet cast (includes lower 
forearm and hand), adult (11 years+), 
plaster 
Ell O B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml 04014 Cast supplies, gauntlet cast (includes lower 
forearm and hand), adult (11 years + ), 
fiberglass 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04015 Cast supplies, gauntlet cast (includes lower 
forearm and hand), pediatric (0-1 0 years), 
plaster 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml 04016 Cast supplies, gauntlet cast (includes lower 
forearm and hand), pediatric (0-10 years), 
fiberglass 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04017 Cast supplies, long arm splint, adult 
(11 years + ), plaster 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04018 Cast supplies, long arm splint, adult 
(11 years+), fiberglass 
El!Jo B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04019 Cast supplies, long arm splint, pediatric 
(0-10 years), plaster 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04020 Cast supplies, long arm splint, pediatric 
(0-10 years), fiberglass 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml 04021 Cast supplies, short arm splint, adult 
(11 years + ), plaster 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D 1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml 04022 Cast supplies, short arm splint, adult 
(11 years+), fiberglass 
BIi o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04023 Cast supplies, short arm splint, pediatric 
(0-10 years), plaster 
BIi o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04024 Cast supplies, short arm splint, pediatric 
(0-10 years), fiberglass 
mII o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04025 Cast supplies, hip spica (one or both legs), 
adult (11 years+), plaster 
BIi o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04026 Cast supplies, hip spica (one or both legs), 
adult (11 yea£s + ), fiberglass 
mII o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml 04027 Cast supplies, hip spica (one or both legs), 
pediatric (0-10 years), plaster 
mII o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Q4012-Q4044 
B 04028 Cast supplies, hip spica (one or both legs), 
pediatric (0-10 years), fiberglass 
BIi o B 
BETOS: D 1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04029 Cast supplies, long leg cast, adult 
( 11 years + ), plaster 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04030 Cast supplies, long leg cast, adult 
( 11 years + ), fiberglass 
mII o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04031 Cast supplies, long leg cast, pediatric 
(0-10 years), plaster 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml 04032 Cast supplies, long leg cast, pediatric 
(0-10 years), fiberglass 
mII o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04033 Cast supplies, long leg cylinder cast, 
adult (11 years + ), plaster 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04034 Cast supplies, long leg cylinder cast, 
adult (11 years+), fiberglass 
mII o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04035 Cast supplies, long leg cylinder cast, 
pediatric (0-10 years), plaster 
Ello B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml 04036 Cast supplies, long leg cylinder cast, 
pediatric (0-10 years), fiberglass 
Ello B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4037 Cast supplies, short leg cast, adult 
(11 years+), plaster 
Elli o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4038 Cast supplies, short leg cast, adult 
(11 years+), fiberglass 
mII o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4039 Cast supplies, short leg cast, pediatric 
(0-10 years), plaster 
BIi o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04040 Cast supplies, short leg cast, pediatric 
(0-10 years), fiberglass 
mII O B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4041 Cast supplies, long leg splint, adult 
(11 years+), plaster 
mII o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04042 Cast supplies, long leg splint, adult 
( 11 years + ), fiberglass 
Ello B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
B 04043 Cast supplies, long leg splint, pediatric 
(0-10 years), plaster 
BIi o B 
BETOS: D 1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
ml 04044 Cast supplies, long leg splint, pediatric 
(0-10 years), fiberglass 
BIi o B 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
rl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC. Payment indicator 
BIi Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
flJW MIPS code
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
421 
Q4045 - Q4107 
B Q4045 Cast supplies, short leg splint, adult 
( 11 years + ), plaster 
Elll 0 B 
BETOS: 01A 
Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4046 Cast supplies, short leg splint, adult 
(11 years+), fiberglass 
Elli 0 B 
BETOS: 01A 
Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4047 Cast supplies, short leg splint, pediatric 
(0-10 years), plaster 
Im 0 B 
BETOS: D 1 A 
Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4048 Cast supplies, short leg splint, pediatric 
(0-1 O years), fiberglass 
Im 0 B 
BETOS: 01A 
Medical/surgical supplies 
B Q4049 Finger splint, static 
Elli B 
BETOS: D1A 
Medical/surgical supplies 
Coding Clinic: 2007, Q2 
Finger splint 
B Q4050 Cast supplies, for unlisted types and 
materials of casts 
B 
BETOS: D1A 
Medical/surgical supplies 
Other carrier priced 
B Q4051 Splint supplies, miscellaneous (includes 
thermoplastics, strapping, fasteners, 
padding and other supplies) 
B 
BETOS: D 1 A 
Medical/surgical supplies 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q2 
MISCELLANEOUS DRUGS (Q4074-Q4082) 
B Q4074 lloprost, inhalation solution, Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA)-approved final product, 
non-compounded, administered through 
DME, unit dose form, up to 20 micrograms Y 
BETOS: D1 G Drugs Administered through 
DME 
Drugs: VENTAVIS 
EJ Q4081 Injection, epoetin alfa, 100 units (for ESRD 
on dialysis) 
N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: EPOGEN, PROCRIT 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
B Q4082 Drug or biological, not otherwise classified, 
Part B drug competitive acquisition 
program (CAP) 
B 
BETOS: D1 E 
Other DME 
SKIN SUBSTITUTES AND BIOLOGICALS (Q4100-Q4304) 
B Q4100 Skin substitute, not otherwise 
specified 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q1; 2008, Q4; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1; 2018, Q2; 2022, Q2 
B Q4101 Apligraf, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: APLIGRAF 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1 
B Q4102 Oasis wound matrix, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: OASIS WOUND MATRIX 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2;2012,Q3;2010,Q1 
B Q4103 Oasis burn matrix, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ANIMAL-DERIVED, 
EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX WOUND CARE 
PRODUCT 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1 
B Q4104 lntegra bilayer matrix wound dressing 
(BMWD), per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: INTEGRA BILAYER WOUND 
MATRIX, INTEGRA MESHED BILAYER 
WOUND MATRIX 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1; 2010, Q1; 2014, Q3
B Q4105 lntegra dermal regeneration template (ORT) 
or integra omnigraft dermal regeneration 
matrix, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: INTEGRA DERMAL 
REGENERATION TEMPLATE, INTEGRA 
MESHED DERMAL REGENERATION 
TEMPLATE, INTEGRA OMNI GRAFT 
DERMAL REGENERATION MATRIX 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2;2010,Q1;2010,Q1 
B Q4106 Dermagraft, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DERMAGRAFT 
Coding Clinlc: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1 
B Q4107 GRAFT JACKET, per square 
centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N1 ASC N 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1; 2021, Q1 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
a Carrier judgment 
El Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
l1i) Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
422 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary Codes (00035-09992) 
B Q4108 lntegra matrix, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: INTEGRA WOUND MATRIX, 
INTEGRA WOUND MATRIX THIN 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1; 2010, Q1 
B Q4110 PriMatrix, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PRIMATRIX, PRIMATRIX AG 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2;2010,Q1 
B Q4111 GammaGraft, per square 
centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: GAMMAGRAFT 
N1 ASC N 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q1; 2008, Q4; 2011, 
Q1;2012,Q2;2010,Q1 
B Q4112 Cymetra, injectable, 1cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1 
[31 Q4113 GRAFT JACKET XPRESS, injectable, 
1cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1 
B Q4114 lntegra flowable wound matrix, injectable, 
1cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: INTEGRA FLOWABLE WOUND 
MATRIX 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q4; 2012, Q2; 2010, 
Q1; 2010, Q1 
B Q4115 AlloSkin, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ALLOSKIN, ALLOSKIN CRYO 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q3; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1 
B Q4116 AlloDerm, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q3; 2011, Q1; 2012, 
Q2; 2010, Q1 
B Q4117 HYALOMATRIX, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HYALOMATRIX WOUND MATRIX, 
HYALOMATRIX WOUND MATRIX 18 SQ. 
CM. X 20 SQ. CM. SHEET, 360 SQ. CM 
EACH
B Q4118 MatriStem micromatrix, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ACELL MICROMATRIX (FINE) 
1 00MG, ACELL MICROMATRIX 
1 000MG, ACELL MICROMATRIX 
100MG, ACELL MICROMATRIX 
200MG, ACELL MICROMATRIX 20MG, 
ACELL MICROMATRIX 30MG, ACELL 
MICROMATRIX 500MG, ACELL 
MICROMATRIX 60MG 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2012, Q2; 2013, 04 
Q4108-Q4133 
B Q4121 TheraSkin, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: THERASKIN 
Coding Clinic: 2011, Q1; 2012, Q2 
B Q4122 Dermacell, dermacell awm or dermacell awm 
porous, per square centimeter 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q1; 2012, Q2 
B Q4123 AlloSkin RT, per square centimeter N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ALLOSKIN RT, ALLOSKIN RT 1 :1 
MESH (Q4123) 
B Q4124 OASIS ultra tri-layer wound matrix, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: OASIS ULTRA TRI-LAYER MATRIX 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q2 
B Q4125 Arthroflex, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
B Q4126 MemoDerm, DermaSpan, TranZgraft or 
lnteguPly, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: DERMASPAN, DERMASPAN ACD 
B Q4127 Talymed, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: TAL YMED 
B Q4128 Flex hd, or allopatch hd, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ACELLULAR DERMAL ALLOGRAFT, 
ALLOPATCH, ALLOPATCH HD, FLEX HD 
PLIABLE, FLEX PLIABLE, FLEX PLIABLE 
PERFORATED, FLEX STRUCTURAL, 
FLEXHD, FLEXHD PLIABLE, FLEXHD 
PLIABLE (SHAPED), FLEXHD PLIABLE 
MAX, FLEXHD PLIABLE PERFORATED, 
FLEXHD PLIABLE SHAPED, FLEXHD 
PLIABLE SHAPED - LARGE, FLEXHD 
PLIABLE SHAPED - MEDIUM, FLEXHD 
PLIABLE SHAPED - SMALL, FLEXHD 
PLIABLE SHAPED PERFORATED, MATRIX 
HD, MATRIX HD FENESTRATED, WC 
ALLOPATCH 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q4 
B Q4130 Strattice TM, per square 
centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2012, Q2 
N1 ASC N
[31 Q4132 "Grafix CORE and GrafixPL CORE, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: GRAFIX CORE 
B Q4133 Grafix prime, grafixpl prime, stravix 
and stravixpl, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CRYOPRESERVED UMBILICAL 
TISSUE, GRAFIX PRIME, GRAFIX XC, 
GRAFIXPL PRIME, STRAVIX, STRAVIX PL 
c?' Male only 
i Female only 
8 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
tl!ln MIPS code 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
423 
Q4134-Q4161 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
424 
S Q4134 Hmatrix, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
S Q4135 Mediskin, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
S Q4136 E-Z Derm, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
S Q4137 Amnioexcel, amnioexcel plus or biodexcel, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AMNIOEXCEL, AMNIOEXCEL PLUS 
S Q4138 BioDFence dryflex, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4139 AmnioMatrix or biodmatrix, injectable, 
1 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4140 Biodfence, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4141 AlloSkin AC, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ALLOSKIN AC, ALLOSKIN AC 1 :1 
MESH (Q4141) 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4142 XCM BIOLOGIC tissue matrix, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4143 Repriza, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ACELLULAR DERMAL MATRIX, 
REPRIZA 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4145 EpiFix, injectable, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4146 Tensix, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4147 Architect, Architect PX, or Architect 
FX, extracellular matrix, per square 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ARCHITECT 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4148 NEOX CORD 1K, NEOX CORD RT, 
or CLARIX CORD 1 K, per square 
centimeter 
N 1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4149 Excellagen, 0.1 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q1 
S Q4150 Allowrap OS or Dry, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ALLOWRAP DRY, ALLOWRAP OS 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
S Q4151 AmnioBand or Guardian, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AMNIOBAND MEMBRANE, 
AMNIOBAND VIABLE, WC AMNIOBAND 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
S Q4152 DermaPure, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DERMAPURE 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
S Q4153 Dermavest and plurivest, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DERMAVEST, PLURIVEST 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4; 2016, Q1 
S Q4154 Biovance, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BIOVANCE 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
S Q4155 NeoxFlo or clarixFlo, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
B Q4156 NEOX 100 or CLARIX 100, per 
square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
B Q4157 Revitalon, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
S Q4158 Kerecis Omega3, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
B Q4159 Affinity, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AFFINITY 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
B Q4160 NuShield, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NUSHIELD 
Coding Clinic: 2014, Q4 
B Q4161 Bio-ConneKt wound matrix, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BIO-CONNEKT, BIO-CONNEKT 
WOUND MATRIX, ORTHONOVIS 
CONNECT 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q1 
• Newcode 
... Revised code 
Bl Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic-
CP.,.. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
B 04162 WoundEx Flow, BioSkin Flow, 
0.5 cc 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B 04163 WoundEx, BioSkin, 
N1 ASC N 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: WOUNDEX MEMBRANE, 
WOUNDEX® MEMBRANE, WOUNDEX® 
MEMBRANE THICK 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B 04164 Helicoll, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: HELICOLL 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B 04165 Keramatrix or kerasorb, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2016, 01 
B 04166 Cytal, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N1 ASC N
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: CYTAL BURN MATRIX, CYTAL 
WOUND MATRIX 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
B 04167 Truskin, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
B 04168 Amnioband, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: AMNIOBAND PARTICULATE 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
B 04169 Artacent wound, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ARTACENT WOUND 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
N1 ASC N 
B 04170 Cygnus, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CYGNUS CRYO MAX, CYGNUS 
MAX, CYGNUS MAX XL, CYGNUS SOLO 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
B 04171 lnterfyl, 1 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: INTERFYL 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
B 04173 Palingen or palingen xplus, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: PALINGEN HYDROMEMBRANE, 
PALINGEN MEMBRANE, PALINGEN 
XPLUS HYDROMEMBRANE, PALINGEN 
XPLUS MEMBRANE 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
B 04174 Palingen or promatrx, 0.36 mg 
per 0.25 cc 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
N1 ASC N 
Q4162-Q4188 
B 04175 Miroderm, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: MIRODERM, MIRODERM 
FENESTRATED, MIRODERM 
FENESTRATED PLUS 
Coding Clinic: 2017, 01 
B 04176 Neopatch or therion, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 01; 2020, 02 
B 04177 Floweramnioflo, 0.1 cc 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 01 
B 04178 Floweramniopatch, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: FLOWERPATCH 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 01 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
B 04179 Flowerderm, per square centimeter N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 01 
B Q4180 Revita, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: REVITA 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 01 
B 04181 Amnio wound, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 01 
N1 ASC N
N1 ASC N 
B 04182 Transcyte, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 01 
B 04183 Surgigraft, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
B 04184 Cellesta or cellesta duo, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
N1 ASC N 
B 04185 Cellesta flowable amnion (25 mg per cc); 
per 0.5 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
B 04186 Epifix, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: EPIFIX, EPIFIX AMNIOTIC 
MEMBRANE ALLOGRAFT 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
B 04187 Epicord, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: EPICORD 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4188 Amnioarmor, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
cf' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
L:JW MIPS code
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
425 
Q4189-Q4217 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
426 
l:J Q4189 Artacent ac, 1 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
l:J Q4190 Artacent ac, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: ARTACENT AC 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
1:J Q4191 Restorigin, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
1:J Q4192 Restorigin, 1 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 01 
1:J Q4193 Coll-e-derm, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
1:J Q4194 Novachor, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
1:J Q4195 Puraply, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
l:J Q4196 Puraply am, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PURAPL Y AM 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
1:J Q4197 Puraply xt, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: PURAPLY AM XT 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
1:J Q4198 Genesis amniotic membrane, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
l:J Q4199 Cygnus matrix, per square 
centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: CYGNUS MATRIX 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q1 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
1:J Q4200 Skin te, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
1:J Q4201 Matrion, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ALLOGRAFT PLACENTAL MATRIX, 
MATRION 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
B Q4202 Keroxx (2.5g/cc), 1cc 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
B Q4203 Derma-gide, per square 
centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
N1 ASC_N 
N1 ASC N 
Drugs: DERMA-GIDE, GEISTLICH DERMA­
GIDE 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
l:J Q4204 Xwrap, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4205 Membrane graft or membrane wrap, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MEMBRANE WRAP 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
l:J Q4206 Fluid flow or fluid GF, 1 cc 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
1:J Q4208 Novafix, per square cenitmeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B Q4209 Surgraft, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
1:J Q421 O Axolotl graft or axolotl dualgraft, 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AXOLOTL DUALGRAFT, AXOLOTL 
GRAFT 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B Q4211 Amnion bio or Axobiomembrane, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B Q4212 Allogen, per cc 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B Q4213 Ascent, 0.5 mg 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B Q4214 Cellesta cord, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
N1 ASC N 
N 
N 
N1 ASC N 
l:J Q4215 Axolotl ambient or axolotl cryo, 0.1 mg 
N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B Q4216 Artacent cord, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B Q4217 Woundfix, BioWound, Woundfix 
Plus, BioWound Plus, Woundfix 
Xplus or BioWound Xplus, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: WOUNDFIX® 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
• New code
A Revised code 
la Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic-
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
Q4218 · Q4247 
B Q4218 Surgicord, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
B Q4233 Surfactor or nudyn, per 0.5 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
BETOS: 01E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
B Q4219 Surgigraft-dual, 
B Q4234 Xcellerate, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
Drugs: XCELLERATE 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
B Q4220 BellaCell HD or Surederm, 
B Q4235 Amniorepair or altiply, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
Drugs: AMNIOREPAIR 
B Q4221 Amniowrap2, per square 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4236 Carepatch, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
Drugs: CAREPATCH™ AMNIOTIC 
B Q4222 Progenamatrix, 
MEMBRANE 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02; 2021, 04; 2021, 
Q4 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
Drugs: PROGENAMATRIX 
B Q4237 Cryo-cord, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
B Q4224 Human health factor 10 amniotic patch 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
(hhf10-p ), per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4238 Derm-maxx, per square 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
BETOS: 01E 
Other drugs 
• B Q4225 Amniobind or dermabind ti,
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4239 Amnio-maxx or amnio-maxx lite, 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
B Q4226 MyOwn skin, includes harvesting and 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
preparation procedures, per square 
B Q4240 Corecyte, for topical use only, 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
per 0.5 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
Drugs: DERMISTAT 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q4 
B 04241 Polycyte, for topical use only, 
B Q4227 Amniocore, per square centimeter N1 ASC N 
per 0.5 cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
Drugs: AMNIOCORE, AMNIOCORE 
Coding Cllnlc: 2020, Q2 
AMNION PATCH, AMNIOCORE SURGICAL 
B Q4242 Amniocyte plus, per 0.5 cc 
N1 ASC N 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
B Q4229 Cogenex amniotic membrane, 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4244 Procenta, per 200 mg 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01E 
Other drugs 
BETOS: 01E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: COGENEX 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
B Q4245 Amniotext, per cc 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4230 Cogenex flowable amnion, 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
per 0.5 cc 
N1 ASC N 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
B Q4246 Coretext or pretext, per cc 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4231 Corplex p, per cc 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
Drugs: PROTEXT 
BETOS: 01E 
Other drugs 
Coding Cllnlc: 2020, Q2 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
B Q4247 Amniotext patch, 
B Q4232 Corplex, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
BETOS: 01E Other drugs 
Drugs: CORPLEX 
Drugs: AMINOTEXT PATCH, AMNIOTEXT 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
,i" Male only 
0 Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
lilD Paid under the DME fee schedule 
wm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
427 
Q4248 - Q4275 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
428 
B Q4248 Dermacyte amniotic membrane allograft, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: DERMACYTE 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
B Q4249 Amniply, for topical use only, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4 
B Q4250 Amnioamp-mp, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4 
B Q4251 Vim, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
N1 ASC N 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4252 Vendaje, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VENDAJE, VENDAJE OPTIC 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
B Q4253 Zenith amniotic membrane, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZENITH 
Coding Clinic: 2021, Q4 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4254 Novafix di, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q4 
B Q4255 Reguard, for topical use only, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 04 
B Q4256 Mlg-complete, 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
B Q4257 Relese, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q2 
B Q4258 Enverse, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ENVERSE 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
B Q4259 Celera dual layer or celera dual 
membrane, per square centimeter N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CELERA, CELERA DUAL LAYER, 
CELERA DUAL MEMBRANE 
Coding Cllnlc: 2022, Q3 
B Q4260 Signature apatch, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 03 
N1 ASC N 
B Q4261 Tag, per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q3 
B Q4262 Dual layer impax membrane, 
N1 ASC N 
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: IMPAX DUAL LAYER MEMBRANE 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B Q4263 Surgraft ti, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
B Q4264 Cocoon membrane, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q1 
N1 ASC N 
• B Q4265 Neostim ti, per square centimeter N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
• B Q4266 Neostim membrane, 
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
N1 ASC N 
• B Q4267 Neostim di, per square centimeter N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
• B Q4268 Surgraft ft, per square centimeter N1 ASC N
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• B Q4269 Surgraft xt, per square
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
• B Q4270 Complete sl, per square
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• B Q4271 Complete ft, per square
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q2 
• B Q4272 Esano a, per square centimeter
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinlc: 2023, 03 
• B Q4273 Esano aaa, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
• B Q4274 Esano ac, per square centimeter
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
• B Q4275 Esano aca, per square 
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
• Newcode 
  Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
B Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic 
CPT" is a registered rrademark of rhe American Medical Association. All rig hrs reserved. 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
•B Q4276 Orion, per square centimeter
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
•B Q4277 Woundplus membrane or e-graft,
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
•B Q4278 Epieffect, per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Drugs: EPIEFFECT 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B Q4279 Vendaje ac, per square centimeter
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
•B Q4280 Xcell amnio matrix,
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B O42s1 Barrera sl or barrera di,
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B Q4282 Cygnus dual, per square
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
•B Q4283 Biovance tri-layer or biovance 31,
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B Q4284 Dermabind sl, per square
centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, Q3 
• B Q4285 Nudyn di or nudyn di mesh,
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
• B Q4286 Nudyn sl or nudyn slw,
per square centimeter 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
• B Q4287 Dermabind di, per square centimeter
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
• B Q4288 Dermabind ch, per square centimeter
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
• B Q4289 Revoshield + amniotic barrier,
per square centimeter 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
• B Q4290 Membrane wrap-hydro,
per square centimeter 
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
• B 04291 Lamellas xi, per square centimeter
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
•B Q4292 Lamellas, per square centimeter
BETOS:O1E Other drugs 
Q4276 - QSOOS 
• B Q4293 Acesso di, per square centimeter
BETOS: O1E Other drugs 
• B Q4294 Amnio quad-core, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4295 Amnio tri-core amniotic,
per square centimeter 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4296 Rebound matrix, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4297 Emerge matrix, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4298 Amnicore pro, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4299 Amnicore pro+, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4300 Acesso ti, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4301 Activate matrix, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4302 Complete aca, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4303 Complete aa, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
• B Q4304 Grafix plus, per square centimeter
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
HOSPICE AND HOME HEALTH CARE (Q5001-Q5010} 
l?J Q5001 Hospice or home health care provided in 
patient's home/residence 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l?J Q5002 Hospice or home health care provided in 
m 
m 
m 
assisted living facility 
B 
BETOS: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Q5003 Hospice care provided in nursing long term 
care facility (LTC) or non-skilled nursing 
facility (NF) 
BETOS:Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Q5004 Hospice care provided in skilled nursing 
facility (SNF) 
BETOS:Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Q5005 Hospice care provided in inpatient hospital 
BETOS:Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B 
B 
B 
cl' Male only 
-9- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status Indicator
Im) MIPS code
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
llLlll Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
429 
QS006-QS114 
l?J Q5006 Hospice care provided in inpatient hospice 
facility 
B 
BET0S: Y2 Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J Q5007 Hospice care provided in long term care 
facility 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J Q5008 Hospice care provided in inpatient 
psychiatric facility 
B 
BET0S: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l!J Q5009 Hospice or home health care provided in 
place not otherwise specified (NOS) 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
I!] Q5010 Hospice home care provided in a hospice 
facility 
B 
BETOS: Y2 
Other - Non-Medicare fee 
schedule 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
CHEMOTHERAPY MEDICATIONS (05101), SEE ALSO 
CHEMOTHERAPY ANTI-EMETIC MEDICATIONS (Q0161-Q0181) 
l?J Q5101 Injection, filgrastim-sndz, biosimilar, 
(zarxio), 1 microgram 
N1 ASC N 
BET0S: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZARXIO™ (FILGRASTIM-SNDZ) 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q2; 2018, Q1; 2018, 
Q2 
ANTI-INFLAMMATORY MEDICATION AND CHEMOTHERAPY 
MEDICATION (Q5103-Q5106) 
l?J Q5103 Injection, infliximab-dyyb, biosimilar, 
(inflectra), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: INFLECTRA 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1; 2018, Q2; 2018, 
Q2 
I!] Q5104 Injection, infliximab-abda, biosimilar, 
(renflexis), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: RENFLEXIS 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q1; 2018, 02; 2018, 
02; 2018, Q2 
I!] Q5105 Injection, epoetin alfa-epbx, biosimilar, 
(retacrit) (for esrd on dialysis), 
100 units 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: RETACRIT 
Coding Clinic: 2018, 02 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
l?J Q5106 Injection, epoetin alfa-epbx, 
biosimilar, (retacrit) (for non-esrd use), 
1000 units 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: RETACRIT 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q2 
ANTI-INFLAMMATORY MEDICATION (Q5107-Q5111) 
l!J Q5107 Injection, bevacizumab-awwb, biosimilar, 
(mvasi), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: MVASI 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1; 2019, Q4 
.A. B Q5108 Injection, pegfilgrastim-jmdb (fulphila), 
biosimilar, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BET0S: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FULPHILA (PEGFILGRASTIM­
JMDB) 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q3; 2018, 04; 2019, 
Q1; 2023, Q2 
l?J Q5109 Injection, infliximab-qbtx, biosimilar, 
(ixifi), 10 mg 
K5 ASC E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1 
l?J Q5110 Injection, filgrastim-aafi, biosimilar, 
(nivestym), 1 microgram 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NIVESTYM 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q3; 2019, 01 
.A. B Q5111 Injection, pegfilgrastim-cbqv (udenyca), 
biosimilar, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: UDENYCA (PEGFILGRASTIM­
CBQV) 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q1; 2023, 02 
CANCER AND VISION ASSOCIATED DRUGS (Q5112-Q5132) 
B Q5112 Injection, trastuzumab-dttb, biosimilar, 
(Ontruzant), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ONTRUZANT 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
B Q5113 Injection, trastuzumab-pkrb, biosimilar, 
(Herzuma), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: HERZUMA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
B Q5114 Injection, Trastuzumab-dkst, biosimilar, 
(Ogivri), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: OGIVRI 
Coding Clinic: 2019, Q3 
• Newcode
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li9 Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
430 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
1:J Q5115 Injection, rituximab-abbs, biosimilar, 
(Truxima), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: TRUXIMA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 03 
B Q5116 Injection, trastuzumab-qyyp, biosimilar, 
(trazimera), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: TRAZIMERA 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B Q5117 Injection, trastuzumab-anns, biosimilar, 
(kanjinti), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: KANJINTI, KANJINTI (KIT) 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B Q5118 Injection, bevacizumab-bvzr, biosimilar, 
(Zirabev), 10 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZIRABEV 
Coding Clinic: 2019, 04 
B Q5119 Injection, rituximab-pvvr, biosimilar, 
(ruxience), 10 mg 
K2 e ASC K 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: RUXIENCE 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
A B Q5120 Injection, pegfilgrastim-bmez (ziextenzo), 
biosimilar, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: ZIEXTENZO 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02; 2023, 02 
B Q5121 Injection, infliximab-axxq, biosimilar, 
(avsola), 10 mg 
K2 e ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: AVSOLA 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
A B Q5122 Injection, pegfilgrastim-apgf (nyvepria), 
biosimilar, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: NYVEPRIA (PEGFILGRASTIM­
APGF) 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 01; 2023, 02 
B Q5123 Injection, rituximab-arrx, biosimilar, 
(riabni), 10 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: RIABNI 
Coding Clinic: 2021, 03 
B Q5124 Injection, ranibizumab-nuna, biosimilar, 
(byooviz), 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: BYOOVIZ 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 02 
B Q5125 Injection, filgrastim-ayow, biosimilar, 
(releuko), 1 microgram 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: RELEUKO 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
QS115-Q9004 
B Q5126 Injection, bevacizumab-maly, biosimilar, 
(alymsys), 10 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 D 
Chemotherapy 
Drugs: AL YMSYS 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 01 
• B Q5127 Injection, pegfilgrastim-fpgk (stimufend),
biosimilar, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: STIMUFEND 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• B 05128 Injection, ranibizumab-eqrn (cimerli), 
biosimilar, 0.1 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: CIMERLI 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• B Q5129 Injection, bevacizumab-adcd (vegzelma), 
biosimilar, 10 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: VEGZELMA 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• B Q5130 Injection, pegfilgrastim-pbbk (fylnetra),
biosimilar, 0.5 mg 
K2 ASC G 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Drugs: FYLNETRA (PEGFILGRASTIM­
PBBK) 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• B Q5131 Injection, adalimumab-aacf (idacio),
biosimilar, 20 mg 
e E2 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 03 
• B 05132 Injection, adalimumab-afzb (abrilada),
biosimilar, 10 mg 
e 
BETOS: 01 E 
Other drugs 
ASSESSMENT AND COUSELING CHAPLAIN SERVICES 
(Q9001-Q9004) 
B Q9001 Assessment by chaplain services 
B 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
B Q9002 Counseling, individual, 
by chaplain services 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
B 
B Q9003 Counseling, group, by chaplain services 
B 
BETOS: 22 Undefined codes 
Value not established 
Coding Clinic: 2022, Q4 
B Q9004 Department of veterans affairs whole health 
partner services 
E1 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Value not established 
cl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
l1Jm MIPS code 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
431 
Q9950 - Q9967 
CONTRAST AGENTS/DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (Q9950-Q9983), 
SEE ALSO IMAGING STUDIES (S8030-S8092) 
B Q9950 Injection, sulfur hexafluoride lipid 
microspheres, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 F 
Standard imaging - other 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: LUMASON, LUMASON NOVAPLUS 
Coding Clinic: 2006, 01; 2008, 01; 2016, 
01; 2016, 04 
1!J Q9951 Low osmolar contrast material, 400 or 
greater mg/ml iodine concentration, 
per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2006, 01; 2012, 03 
1!J Q9953 Injection, iron-based magnetic resonance 
contrast agent, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 F Standard imaging - other 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2006, 01; 2012, 03 
1!J Q9954 Oral magnetic resonance contrast agent, 
per 100 ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 F 
Standard imaging - other 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2006, 01; 2012, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40 
B Q9955 Injection, perflexane lipid microspheres, 
per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 F 
Standard imaging - other 
Other carrier priced 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 03 
B Q9956 Injection, octafluoropropane microspheres, 
per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 F 
Standard imaging - other 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: OPTISON 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 03 
B Q9957 Injection, perflutren lipid microspheres, 
per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 F 
Standard imaging - other 
Other carrier priced 
Drugs: DEFINITY, DEFINITY RT 
Coding Clinic: 2012, 03 
l!J Q9958 High osmolar contrast material, up 
to 149 mg/ml iodine concentration, 
per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: CYSTO-CONRAY II, 
CYSTOGRAFIN, CYSTOGRAFIN-DILUTE 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03; 2007, 01; 2011, 
04; 2012, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40 
1!J Q9959 High osmolar contrast material, 150-199 mg/ 
ml iodine concentration, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E 
Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03; 2007, 01; 2012, 03 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
1!J Q9960 High osmolar contrast material, 200-249 mg/ 
ml iodine concentration, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03; 2007, 01; 2012, 
03 
1!J Q9961 High osmolar contrast material, 250-299 mg/ 
ml iodine concentration, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: CONRAY 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03; 2007, 01; 2012, 
03 
l!J Q9962 High osmolar contrast material, 300-349 mg/ 
ml iodine concentration, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E 
Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03; 2007, 01; 2012, 
03 
1!J Q9963 High osmolar contrast material, 350-399 mg/ 
ml iodine concentration, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: GASTROGRAFIN, MD 
GASTROVIEW 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03; 2007, 01; 2012, 
03 
1!J Q9964 High osmolar contrast material, 400 
or greater mg/ml iodine concentration, 
per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E 
Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Coding Clinic: 2005, 03; 2007, 01; 2011, 
04; 2012, 03 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-13, 40 
1!J Q9965 Low osmolar contrast material, 100-199 mg/ 
ml iodine concentration, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: OMNIPAOUE 140, OMNIPAOUE 180 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1; 2011, Q4; 2012, 
Q3 
1!J Q9966 Low osmolar contrast material, 200-299 mg/ 
ml iodine concentration, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: IODIXANOL, IOMERON, 
ISOVUE-200, ISOVUE-250, ISOVUE-M-200, 
OMNIPAQUE 240, OPTIRAY 240, 
ULTRAVIST 240, VISIPAQUE 270 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1; 2012, Q3 
1!J Q9967 Low osmolar contrast material, 300-399 mg/ 
ml iodine concentration, per ml 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E 
Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: IODIXANOL, IOMERON, IOVERSOL 
INJECTION 636 MG/ML, IOVERSOL 
INJECTION 678 MG/ML, IOVERSOL 
INJECTION 741 MG/ML, ISOVUE-300, 
ISOVUE-300 MULTI PACK, ISOVUE-370, 
• Newcode 
A Revised code . 
1!:11 Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
432 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary Codes (Q0035-Q9992) 
ISOVUE-370 MULTI PACK, ISOVUE-M-300, 
OMNIPAQUE 300, OMNIPAQUE 300 
(NOVAPLUS), OMNIPAQUE 350, 
OMNIPAQUE 350 (NOVAPLUS), OPTIRAY 
300, OPTIRAY 320, OPTIRAY 350, OXILAN 
350, ULTRAVIST 300, ULTRAVIST 370, 
VISIPAQUE 320 
Coding Clinic: 2008, Q1; 2011, Q4; 2012, 
Q3 
B Q9968 Injection, non-radioactive, non-contrast, 
visualization adjunct (e.g., methylene blue, 
isosulfan blue), 1 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 11 E 
Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Drugs: ISOSULFAN BLUE INJECTION, 
PROVAYBLUE 
I!] Q9969 Tc-99m from non-highly enriched uranium 
source, full cost recovery add-on, per study 
dose 
K 
BETOS: Y1 Other - Medicare fee schedule 
I!] Q9982 Flutemetamol f18, diagnostic, per study 
dose, up to 5 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E 
Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q2; 2016, Q2 
I!] Q9983 Florbetaben f18, diagnostic, per study dose, 
up to 8.1 millicuries 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: 11 E 
Standard imaging - nuclear 
medicine 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q2; 2016, Q2 
OTHER DRUGS AND TEST (Q9991-Q9992) 
B Q9991 Injection, buprenorphine extended­
release (sublocade), less than or equal to 
100 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SUBLOCADE 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q2 
B Q9992 Injection, buprenorphine extended-release 
(sublocade), greater than 100 mg 
K2 ASC K 
BETOS: 01 E Other drugs 
Drugs: SUBLOCADE 
Coding Clinic: 2018, Q2 
<i" Male only 
7 Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Q9968 - Q9992 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
t:llil MIPScode
433 
NOTES 
Diagnostic Radiology Services (R0070-R0076) 
DIAGNOSTIC RADIOLOGY SERVICES 
(R0070-R0076) 
TRANSPORTATION, PORTABLE RADIOLOGY EQUIPMENT 
(R0070-R0076) 
EJ R0070 Transportation of portable X-ray equipment 
and personnel to home or nursing home, 
per trip to facility or location, one 
patient seen 
B 
BETOS: 11 F Standard imaging - other 
Price established by carriers 
l!J R0075 Transportation of portable X-ray equipment 
and personnel to home or nursing home, 
per trip to facility or location, more than 
one patient seen 
B 
BETOS: 11 F Standard imaging - other 
Price established by carriers 
EJ R0076 Transportation of portable EKG to facility 
or location, per patient 
B 
BETOS: 11 F Standard imaging - other 
Price established by carriers 
ef' Male only 
-'f Female only 
8 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
lllilll Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
R0070 - R0076 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
4 MIPS code 
435 
NOTES 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
TEMPORARY NATIONAL CODES 
(NON-MEDICARE) (S0012-S9999) 
NON-MEDICARE DRUG CODES (S0012-50197) 
D S0012 Butorphanol tartrate, nasal spray, 25 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0013 Esketamine, nasal spray, 1 mg 
0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0014 Tacrine hydrochloride, 10 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0017 Injection, aminocaproic acid, 5 grams 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0021 Injection, cefoperazone sodium, 1 gram 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0023 Injection, cimetidine hydrochloride, 300 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0028 Injection, famotidine, 20 mg 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0032 Injection, nafcillin sodium, 2 grams 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0034 Injection, ofloxacin, 400 mg 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0039 Injection, sulfamethoxazole and 
trimethoprim, 10 ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0040 Injection, ticarcillin disodium and clavulanate 
potassium, 3.1 grams 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0074 Injection, cefotetan disodium, 500 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0078 Injection, fosphenytoin sodium, 750 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0080 Injection, pentamidine isethionate, 300 mg 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0081 Injection, piperacillin sodium, 500 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S0012-S0132 
D S0088 lmatinib, 100 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0090 Sildenafil citrate, 25 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0091 Granisetron hydrochloride, 1 mg 
(for circumstances falling under the Medicare 
statute, use 00166) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0092 Injection, hydromorphone hydrochloride, 
250 mg (loading dose for infusion pump) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0093 Injection, morphine sulfate, 500 mg 
(loading dose for infusion pump) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0104 Zidovudine, oral, 100 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0106 Bupropion HCL sustained release tablet, 
150 mg, per bottle of 60 tablets 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0108 Mercaptopurine, oral, 50 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0109 Methadone, oral, 5 mg 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0117 Tretinoin, topical, 5 grams 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0119 Ondansetron, oral, 4 mg (for circumstances 
falling under the Medicare statute, 
use HCPCS Q code) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0122 Injection, menotropins, 75 IU 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0126 Injection, follitropin alfa, 75 IU 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0128 Injection, follitropin beta, 75 IU 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0132 Injection, ganirelix acetate, 250 mcg 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
fZm MIPS code 
ASC - ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
437 
S0136-S0197 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
0 S0136 Clozapine, 25 mg 
0 S0174 Dolasetron mesylate, oral 50 mg 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
(for circumstances falling under the Medicare 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
statute, use Q0180) 
0 S0137 Didanosine (ddi), 25 mg 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0175 Flutamide, oral, 125 mg 
0 S0138 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Finasteride, 5 mg 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0176 Hydroxyurea, oral, 500 mg 
0 S0139 Minoxidil, 10 mg 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0177 Levamisole hydrochloride, oral, 50 mg 
0 S0140 Saquinavir, 200 mg 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0178 Lomustine, oral, 10 mg 
0 S0142 Colistimethate sodium, inhalation solution 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
administered through DME, concentrated 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
form, per mg 
0 S0179 Megestrol acetate, oral, 20 mg 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0145 Injection, pegylated interferon alfa-2a, 
0 S0182 Procarbazine hydrochloride, oral, 50 mg 
180 mcg per ml 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0183 Prochlorperazine maleate. oral, 5 mg 
0 S0148 Injection, pegylated interferon alfa-2b, 
(for circumstances falling under the Medicare 
10 mcg 
statute, use 00164) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0155 Sterile dilutant for epoprostenol, 50ml 
0 S0187 Tamoxifen citrate, oral, 10 mg 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0156 Exemestane, 25 mg 
0 S0189 Testosterone pellet, 75 mg 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0157 Becaplermin gel 0.01%, 0.5 gm 
0 S0190 Mifepristone, oral, 200 mg 
i 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0160 Dextroamphetamine sulfate, 5 mg 
0 S0191 Misoprostol, oral, 200 mcg 
io 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0164 Injection, pantoprazole sodium, 40 mg 
0 S0194 Dialysis/stress vitamin supplement, oral, 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
100 capsules 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
0 S0169 Calcitrol, 0.25 microgram 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
0 S0197 Prenatal vitamins. 30-day supply 
io 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
D S0170 Anastrozole, oral, 1 mg 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S0172 Chlorambucil, oral, 2 mg 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
"' Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
438 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVIDER SERVICES (S0199-S0400), 
SEE ALSO MISCELLANEOUS PROVIDER SERVICES AND 
SUPPLIES (S0630-S3722) 
D S0199 Medically induced abortion by oral ingestion 
of medication including all associated 
services and supplies (e.g., patient 
counseling, office visits, confirmation of 
pregnancy by HCG, ultrasound to confirm 
duration of pregnancy, ultrasound to confirm 
completion of abortion) except drugs 
\ o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0201 Partial hospitalization services, less than 
24 hours, per diem 
Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0207 Paramedic intercept, non-hospital-based 
ALS service (non-voluntary), non-transport 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0208 Paramedic intercept, hospital-based ALS 
service (non-voluntary), non-transport 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0209 Wheelchair van, mileage, per mile 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0215 Non-emergency transportation; mileage, 
per mile 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0220 Medical conference by a physician with 
interdisciplinary team of health professionals 
or representatives of community agencies to 
coordinate activities of patient care (patient 
is present); approximately 30 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0221 Medical conference by a physician with 
interdisciplinary team of health professionals 
or representatives of community agencies to 
coordinate activities of patient care (patient 
is present); approximately 60 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0250 Comprehensive geriatric assessment 
and treatment planning performed by 
assessment team 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0255 Hospice referral visit (advising patient and 
family of care options) performed by nurse, 
social worker, or other designated staff 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S0199 - S0285 
D S0257 Counseling and discussion regarding 
advance directives or end of life care 
planning and decisions, with patient and/or 
surrogate (list separately in addition to code 
for appropriate evaluation and management 
service) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0260 History and physical (outpatient or office) 
related to surgical procedure (list separately 
in addition to code for appropriate evaluation 
and management service) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0265 Genetic counseling, under physician 
supervision, each 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0270 Physician management of patient 
home care, standard monthly case rate 
(per 30 days) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0271 Physician management of patient 
home care, hospice monthly case rate 
(per 30 days) 
Llim 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0272 Physician management of patient home 
care, episodic care monthly case rate 
(per 30 days) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0273 Physician visit at member's home, outside of 
a capitation arrangement 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0274 Nurse practitioner visit at member's home, 
outside of a capitation arrangement 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0280 Medical home program, comprehensive care 
coordination and planning, initial plan 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0281 Medical home program, comprehensive care 
coordination and planning, maintenance of 
plan 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0285 Colonoscopy consultation performed prior to 
a screening colonoscopy procedure 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q2 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
G Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
lllillJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
Ll!m MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
439 
S0302 - S0510 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
440 
D S0302 Completed early periodic screening 
diagnosis and treatment (EPSDT) service 
(list in addition to code for appropriate 
evaluation and management service) 
e 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0310 Hospitalist services (list separately in 
addition to code for appropriate evaluation 
and management service) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0311 Comprehensive management and 
care coordination for advanced illness, 
per calendar month 
llJm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q2 
D S0315 Disease management program; initial 
assessment and initiation of the program 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0316 Disease management program, follow-up/ 
reassessment 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0317 Disease management program; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0320 Telephone calls by a registered nurse to a 
disease management program member for 
monitoring purposes; per month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0340 Lifestyle modification program for 
management of coronary artery disease, 
including all supportive services; first quarter 
/ stage 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0341 Lifestyle modification program for 
management of coronary artery disease, 
including all supportive services; second or 
third quarter / stage 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0342 Lifestyle modification program for 
management of coronary artery disease, 
including all supportive services; fourth 
quarter / stage 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0353 Treatment planning and care coordination 
management for cancer, initial treatment 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0354 Treatment planning and care coordination 
management for cancer, established patient 
with a change of regimen 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0390 Routine foot care; removal and/or trimming 
of corns, calluses and/or nails and preventive 
maintenance in specific medical conditions 
(e.g., diabetes), per visit 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0395 Impression casting of a foot performed by a 
practitioner other than the manufacturer of 
the orthotic 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0400 Global fee for extracorporeal shock wave 
lithotripsy treatment of kidney stone(s) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Extracorporea/ shock wave lithotripsy 
VISION SUPPLIES (S0500-S0596) 
D S0500 Disposable contact lens, per lens 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0504 Single vision prescription lens 
(safety, athletic, or sunglass), per lens 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0506 Bifocal vision prescription lens 
(safety, athletic, or sunglass), per lens 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0508 Trifocal vision prescription lens 
(safety, athletic, or sunglass), per lens 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0510 Non-prescription lens (safety, athletic, or 
sunglass), per lens 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
.... Reviseq code 
ll Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic* 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medico/ Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D S0512 Daily wear specialty contact lens, per lens 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0514 Color contact lens, per lens 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0515 Scleral lens, liquid bandage device, per lens 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0516 Safety eyeglass frames 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0518 Sunglasses frames 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0580 Polycarbonate lens (list this code in addition 
to the basic code for the lens) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0581 Nonstandard lens (list this code in addition to 
the basic code for the lens) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0590 Integral lens service, miscellaneous services 
reported separately 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0592 Comprehensive contact lens evaluation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0595 Dispensing new spectacle lenses for patient 
supplied frame 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0596 Phakic intraocular lens for correction of 
refractive error 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
SCREENINGS AND EXAMINATIONS (S0601-S0622) 
D S0601 Screening proctoscopy 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0610 Annual gynecological examination, 
new patient 
~ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0612 Annual gynecological examination, 
established patient 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S0S12- S0812 
D S0613 Annual gynecological examination; 
clinical breast examination without pelvic 
evaluation 
~ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0618 Audiometry for hearing aid evaluation to 
determine the level and degree of hearing 
loss 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0620 Routine ophthalmological examination 
including refraction; new patient 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0621 Routine ophthalmological examination 
including refraction; established patient 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0622 Physical exam for college, new or 
established patient (list separately in addition 
to appropriate evaluation and management 
code) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVIDER SERVICES AND SUPPLIES 
(S0630-S3722), SEE ALSO MISCELLANEOUS PROVIDER 
SERVICES (S0199-50400) 
D S0630 Removal of sutures; by a physician other 
than the physician who originally closed the 
wound 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0800 Laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S0810 Photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
2 
Phototherapeutic keratectomy 
D S0812 Phototherapeutic keratectomy (PTK) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
~ Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
llJm MIPScode 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ml) Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
441 
S1001 - S2070 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
442 
D S1001 Deluxe item, patient aware (list in addition to 
code for basic item) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1002 Customized item (list in addition to code for 
basic item) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1015 IV tubing extension set 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1016 Non-PVC (polyvinyl chloride) intravenous 
administration set, for use with drugs that are 
not stable in PVC e.g. paclitaxel 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1030 Continuous noninvasive glucose monitoring 
device, purchase (for physician interpretation 
of data, use CPT® code) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1031 Continuous noninvasive glucose monitoring 
device, rental, including sensor, sensor 
replacement, and download to monitor 
(for physician interpretation of data, use 
CPT® code) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1034 Artificial pancreas device system (e.g., low 
glucose suspend (LGS) feature) including 
continuous glucose monitor, blood glucose 
device, insulin pump and computer algorithm 
that communicates with all of the devices 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1035 Sensor; invasive (e.g., subcutaneous), 
disposable, for use with artificial pancreas 
device system 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1036 Transmitter; external, for use with artificial 
pancreas device system 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1037 Receiver (monitor); external, for use with 
artificial pancreas device system 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S1040 Cranial remolding orthosis, pediatric, 
rigid, with soft interface material, custom 
fabricated, includes fitting and 
adjustment(s) 
o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S1091 Stent, non-coronary, temporary, with delivery 
system (propel) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2053 Transplantation of small intestine and liver 
allografts 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2054 Transplantation of multivisceral organs 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2055 Harvesting of donor multivisceral organs, 
with preparation and maintenance of 
allografts; from cadaver donor 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2060 Lobar lung transplantation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2061 Donor lobectomy (lung) for transplantation, 
living donor 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2065 Simultaneous pancreas kidney 
transplantation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2066 Breast reconstruction with gluteal artery 
perforator (GAP) flap, including harvesting 
of the flap, microvascular transfer, closure of 
donor site and shaping the flap into a breast, 
unilateral 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2067 Breast reconstruction of a single breast with 
"stacked" deep inferior epigastric perforator 
(DIEP) flap(s) and/or gluteal artery perforator 
(GAP) flap(s), including harvesting of the 
flap(s), microvascular transfer, closure of 
donor site(s) and shaping the flap into a 
breast, unilateral 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2068 Breast reconstruction with deep inferior 
epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap or 
superficial inferior epigastric artery (SIEA) 
flap, including harvesting of the flap, 
microvascular transfer, closure of donor site 
and shaping the flap into a breast, unilateral 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2070 Cystourethroscopy, with ureteroscopy 
and/or pyeloscopy; with endoscopic laser 
treatment of ureteral calculi (includes ureteral 
catheterization) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
(ii Non-covered by Medicare 
llJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Cllnle" 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D S2079 Laparoscopic esophagomyotomy 
(Heller type) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2080 Laser-assisted uvulopalatoplasty (LAUP) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2083 Adjustment of gastric band diameter via 
subcutaneous port by injection or aspiration 
of saline 
Esophagus 
Small 
stomach 
pouch 
Duodenum 
. -\ - 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
-----
Gastric band 
¥ Stomach 
remainder 
D S2095 Transcatheter occlusion or embolization 
for tumor destruction, percutaneous, any 
method, using yttrium-90 microspheres 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2102 Islet cell tissue transplant from pancreas; 
allogeneic 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2103 Adrenal tissue transplant to brain 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2107 Adoptive immunotherapy i.e. development of 
specific anti-tumor reactivity (e.g., tumor­
infiltrating lymphocyte therapy) per course of 
treatment 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2112 Arthroscopy, knee, surgical for harvesting of 
cartilage (chondrocyte cells) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2115 Osteotomy, periacetabular, with internal 
fixation 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S2079 - S2205 
D S2117 Arthroereisis, subtalar 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2118 Metal-on-metal total hip resurfacing, 
including acetabular and femoral 
components 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2120 Low density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis 
using heparin-induced extracorporeal LDL 
precipitation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2140 Cord blood harvesting for transplantation, 
allogeneic 
¦ o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2142 Cord blood-derived stem-cell transplantation, 
allogeneic 
¦ o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2150 Bone marrow or blood-derived stem cells 
(peripheral or umbilical), allogeneic or 
autologous, harvesting, transplantation, and 
related complications; including: pheresis 
and cell preparation/storage; marrow ablative 
therapy; drugs, supplies, hospitalization 
with outpatient follow-up; medical/surgical, 
diagnostic, emergency, and rehabilitative 
services; and the number of days of pre-and 
post-transplant care in the global definition 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2152 Solid organ(s), complete or segmental, 
single organ or combination of organs; 
deceased or living donor (s), procurement, 
transplantation, and related complications; 
including: drugs; supplies; hospitalization 
with outpatient follow-up; medical/surgical, 
diagnostic, emergency, and rehabilitative 
services, and the number of days of pre- and 
post-transplant care in the global definition 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2202 Echosclerotherapy 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2205 Minimally invasive direct coronary artery 
bypass surgery involving mini-thoracotomy 
or mini-sternotomy surgery, performed under 
direct vision; using arterial graft(s), single 
coronary arterial graft 
Llil]3 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl Male only 
,ll, Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 • 23 = ASC Payment Indicator 
lllml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status lhditator 
lilJW MIPS code 
CP is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
443 
S2206 - S2403 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
444 
D S2206 Minimally invasive direct coronary artery 
bypass surgery involving mini-thoracotomy 
or mini-sternotomy surgery, performed under 
direct vision; using arterial graft(s), two 
coronary arterial grafts 
tlm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2207 Minimally invasive direct coronary artery 
bypass surgery involving mini-thoracotomy 
or mini-sternotomy surgery, performed 
under direct vision; using venous graft only, 
single coronary venous graft 
tlm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2208 Minimally invasive direct coronary artery 
bypass surgery involving mini-thoracotomy 
or mini-sternotomy surgery, performed 
under direct vision; using single arterial and 
venous graft(s), single venous graft 
tlm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2209 Minimally invasive direct coronary artery 
bypass surgery involving mini-thoracotomy 
or mini-sternotomy surgery, performed under 
direct vision; using two arterial grafts and 
single venous graft 
E 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2225 Myringotomy, laser-assisted 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2230 Implantation of magnetic component of semi­
implantable hearing device on ossicles in 
middle ear 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2235 Implantation of auditory brain stem implant 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2260 Induced abortion, 17 to 24 weeks 
io 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2265 Induced abortion, 25 to 28 weeks 
io 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2266 Induced abortion, 29 to 31 weeks 
io 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2267 Induced abortion, 32 weeks or greater 
io 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2300 Arthroscopy, shoulder, surgical; with 
thermally-induced capsulorrhaphy 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O S2325 Hip core decompression 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2017, Q3 
D S2340 Chemodenervation of abductor muscle(s) of 
vocal cord 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O S2341 Chemodenervation of adductor muscle(s) of 
vocal cord 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2342 Nasal endoscopy for post-operative 
debridement following functional endoscopic 
sinus surgery, nasal and/or sinus cavity(s), 
unilateral or bilateral 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2348 Decompression procedure, percutaneous, of 
nucleus pulposus of intervertebral disc, using 
radiofrequency energy, single or multiple 
levels, lumbar 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2350 Diskectomy, anterior, with decompression of 
spinal cord and/or nerve root(s), including 
osteophytectomy; lumbar, single interspace 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2351 Diskectomy, anterior, with decompression of 
spinal cord and/or nerve root(s), including 
osteophytectomy; lumbar, each additional 
interspace (list separately in addition to code 
for primary procedure) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2400 Repair, congenital diaphragmatic hernia in 
the fetus using temporary tracheal occlusion, 
procedure performed in utero 
!jl. O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2401 Repair, urinary tract obstruction in the fetus, 
procedure performed in utero 
!jl. O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S2402 Repair, congenital cystic adenomatoid 
malformation in the fetus, procedure 
performed in utero 
!jl. o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2403 Repair, extralobar pulmonary sequestration 
in the fetus, procedure performed in utero !jl. o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
• Revised code
B Carrier judgment 
m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D S2404 Repair, myelomeningocele in the fetus, 
procedure performed in utero 
-'?- e 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2405 Repair of sacrococcygeal teratoma in the 
fetus, procedure performed in utero 
-'?- e 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2409 Repair, congenital malformation of fetus, 
procedure performed in utero, 
not otherwise classified 
-'?- e 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2411 Fetoscopic laser therapy for treatment of 
twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S2900 Surgical techniques requiring use of robotic 
surgical system (list separately in addition to 
code for primary procedure) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2010, Q1 
D S3000 Diabetic indicator; retinal eye exam, dilated, 
bilateral 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3005 Performance measurement, evaluation of 
patient self assessment, depression 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3600 STAT laboratory request (situations other 
than S3601) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3601 Emergency STAT laboratory charge for 
patient who is homebound or residing in a 
nursing facility 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l:J S3620 Newborn metabolic screening panel, 
includes test kit, postage and the laboratory 
tests specified by the slate for inclusion in 
this panel (e.g., galactose; hemoglobin, 
electrophoresis; hydroxyprogesterone, 17-D; 
phenylalanine (PKU); and thyroxine, total) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3630 Eosinophil count, blood, direct 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3645 HIV-1 antibody testing of oral mucosal 
transudate 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S2404-S3850 
D S3650 Saliva test, hormone level; during 
menopause 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3652 Saliva test, hormone level; to assess 
preterm labor risk 
-'?- e 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3655 Antisperm antibodies test (immunobead) 
d' 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3708 Gastrointestinal fat absorption study 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3722 Dose optimization by area under the curve 
(AUC) analysis, for infusional 5-fluorouracil 
BETO$: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
GENETIC TESTING (S3800-S3870) 
D S3800 Genetic testing for amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3840 DNA analysis for germline mutations of the 
RET proto-oncogene for susceptibility to 
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3841 Genetic testing for retinoblastoma 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3842 Genetic testing for Von Hippel-Lindau 
disease 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3844 DNA analysis of the connexin 26 gene 
(GJB2) for susceptibility to congenital, 
profound deafness 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3845 Genetic testing for alpha-thalassemia 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3846 Genetic testing for hemoglobin E beta­
thalassemia 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3849 Genetic testing for niemann-pick disease 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3850 Genetic testing for sickle cell anemia 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Male only 
Si- Female only 
O Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicaior
lil!m MIPScode
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
445 
S3852 - S4027 
D S3852 DNA analysis for APOE epsilon 4 allele for 
susceptibility to alzheimer's disease 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3853 Genetic testing for myotonic muscular 
dystrophy 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3854 Gene expression profiling panel for use in 
the management of breast cancer treatment 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2016, Q2 
D S3861 Genetic testing, sodium channel, voltage­
gated, type V, alpha subunit (SCN5A) and 
variants for suspected brugada syndrome 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3865 Comprehensive gene sequence analysis for 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3866 Genetic analysis for a specific gene mutation 
for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) in an 
individual with a known HCM mutation in the 
family 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S3870 Comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) 
microarray testing for developmental delay, 
autism spectrum disorder and/or intellectual 
disability 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
MISCELLANEOUS TESTS (S3900·S3904) 
D S3900 Surface electromyography (EMG) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 53902 Ballistocardiogram 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 53904 Masters two step 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ASSORTED OBSTETRICAL AND FERTILITY SERVICES 
(S4005-S4989) 
D 54005 Interim labor facility global (labor occurring 
but not resulting in delivery) 
 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 54011 In vitro fertilization; including but not limited 
to identification and incubation of mature 
oocytes, fertilization with sperm, incubation 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
of embryo(s), and subsequent visualization 
for determination of development 
 O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4013 Complete cycle, gamete intrafallopian 
transfer (GIFT), case rate 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 54014 Complete cycle, zygote intrafallopian 
transfer (ZIFT), case rate 
 0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 54015 Complete in vitro fertilization cycle, not 
otherwise specified, case rate 
 O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 54016 Frozen in vitro fertilization cycle, 
D s4011 
D s401a 
D s4020 
D s4021 
case rate 
 O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Incomplete cycle, treatment cancelled prior 
to stimulation, case rate 
 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Frozen embryo transfer procedure 
cancelled before transfer, case rate 
o 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
In vitro fertilization procedure cancelled 
before aspiration, case rate 
 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
In vitro fertilization procedure cancelled 
after aspiration, case rate 
 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 54022 Assisted oocyte fertilization, case rate 
o 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D s4023 Donor egg cycle, incomplete, case rate o
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D s4025 Donor services for in vitro fertilization 
(sperm or embryo), case rate 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D s4026 Procurement of donor sperm from sperm 
bank 
d" 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D s4021 Storage of previously frozen embryos 
o 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
• Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li9 Non-covered by Medicare 
 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic" 
446 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D S4028 Microsurgical epididymal sperm aspiration 
(MESA) 
d' 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4030 Sperm procurement and cryopreservation 
services; initial visit 
d' 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4031 Sperm procurement and cryopreservation 
services; subsequent visit 
d' 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4035 Stimulated intrauterine insemination (IUI), 
case rate 
.!j1. o 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4037 Cryopreserved embryo transfer, 
case rate 
.!j1. o 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4040 Monitoring and storage of cryopreserved 
embryos, per 30 days 
.!j1. O 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4042 Management of ovulation induction 
(interpretation of diagnostic tests and 
studies, non-face-to-face medical 
management of the patient), per cycle 
.!j1. o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4981 Insertion of levonorgestrel-releasing 
intrauterine system 
.!j1. o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4989 Contraceptive intrauterine device 
(e.g., Progestacert IUD), including implants 
and supplies 
.!j1. o 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Intrauterine device 
S4028 - S5100 
MISCELLANEOUS MEDICATIONS AND THERAPEUTIC 
SUBSTANCES (S4990-S5014) 
D S4990 Nicotine patches, legend 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4991 Nicotine patches, non-legend 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4993 Contraceptive pills for birth control 
.!j1. o 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S4995 Smoking cessation gum 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5000 Prescription drug, generic 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5001 Prescription drug, brand name 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5010 5% dextrose and 0.45% normal saline, 
1000 ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5012 5% dextrose with potassium chloride, 
1000 ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 55013 5% dextrose/0.45% normal saline with 
potassium chloride and magnesium sulfate, 
1000 ml 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 55014 5% dextrose/0.45% normal saline with 
potassium chloride and magnesium sulfate, 
1500 ml 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
VARIOUS HOME CARE SERVICES (S5035-S5199) 
D 55035 Home infusion therapy, routine service of 
infusion device (e.g., pump maintenance) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5036 Home infusion therapy, repair of infusion 
device (e.g., pump repair) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5100 Day care services, adult; per 15 minutes 
o 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Male only 
.!j1. Female only 
8 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 • 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
6lII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = AP C Sta tus indicator
§ MIPScode
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
447 
S5101 - S5181 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
448 
D S5101 Day care services, adult; per half day 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S5102 Day care services, adult; per diem 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S5105 Day care services, center-based; services 
not included in program fee, per diem 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S5108 Home care training to home care client, 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S5109 Home care training to home care client, 
per session 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S5110 Home care training, family; per 15 minutes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5111 Home care training, family; per session 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5115 Home care training, non-family; 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 
0 
D S5116 Home care training, non-family; per session 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5120 Chore services; per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5121 Chore services; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5125 Attendant care services; per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5126 Attendant care services; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5130 Homemaker service, NOS; per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5131 Homemaker service, NOS; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5135 Companion care, adult (e.g., IADL/ADL); 
per 15 minutes 
O 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5136 Companion care, adult (e.g., IADL/ADL); 
per diem 
O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5140 Foster care, adult; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5141 Foster care, adult; per month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 
0 
D S5145 Foster care, therapeutic, child; per diem 
0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5146 Foster care, therapeutic, child; per month 
O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5150 Unskilled respite care, not hospice; 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5151 Unskilled respite care, not hospice; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5160 Emergency response system; installation 
and testing 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5161 Emergency response system; service fee, 
per month (excludes installation and testing) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5162 Emergency response system; purchase only 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5165 Home modifications; per service 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 55170 Home delivered meals, including 
preparation; per meal 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 55175 Laundry service, external, professional; 
per order 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 55180 Home health respiratory therapy, initial 
evaluation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 55181 Home health respiratory therapy, NOS, 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
A Revised code 
· lai Carrier.judgment
l!J Special coverage instructions apply
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute
AHA Coding Clinic-
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D S5185 Medication reminder service, non-face-to­
face; per month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5190 Wellness assessment, performed by 
non-physician 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5199 Personal care item, NOS, each 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
HOME INFUSION THERAPY (S5497-S5523), SEE ALSO 
HOME INFUSION THERAPY (S9325-S9379); HOME THERAPY 
SERVICES (S9490-S9810) 
D S5497 Home infusion therapy, catheter care/ 
maintenance, not otherwise classified; 
includes administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5498 Home infusion therapy, catheter care/ 
maintenance, simple (single lumen), includes 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination and 
all necessary supplies and equipment, 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5501 Home infusion therapy, catheter care/ 
maintenance, complex (more than one 
lumen), includes administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5502 Home infusion therapy, catheter care/ 
maintenance, implanted access device, 
includes administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination and 
all necessary supplies and equipment, 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem (use this code for interim 
maintenance of vascular access not currently 
in use) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5517 Home infusion therapy, all supplies 
necessary for restoration of catheter patency 
or declotting 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S5185- S5565 
D S5518 Home infusion therapy, all supplies 
necessary for catheter repair 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5520 Home infusion therapy, all supplies 
(including catheter) necessary for a 
peripherally inserted central venous 
catheter (PICC) line insertion 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5521 Home infusion therapy, all supplies 
(including catheter) necessary for a 
midline catheter insertion 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5522 Home infusion therapy, insertion of 
peripherally inserted central venous catheter 
(PICC), nursing services only (no supplies or 
catheter included) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5523 Home infusion therapy, insertion of midline 
venous catheter, nursing services only 
(no supplies or catheter included) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
INSULIN AND DELIVERY DEVICES (S5550-S5571) 
D S5550 Insulin, rapid onset, 5 units 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5551 Insulin, most rapid onset (Lispro or Aspart); 
5 units 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5552 Insulin, intermediate acting (NPH or LENTE); 
5 units 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5553 Insulin, long acting; 5 units 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5560 Insulin delivery device, reusable pen; 
1.5 ml size 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5561 Insulin delivery device, reusable pen; 
3 ml size 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S5565 Insulin cartridge for use in insulin delivery 
device other than pump; 150 units 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
lilD Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
tin) MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
449 
S5566- S8131 
D 55566 Insulin cartridge for use in insulin delivery 
device other than pump; 300 units 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 55570 Insulin delivery device, disposable pen 
(including insulin); 1.5 ml size 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 55571 Insulin delivery device, disposable pen 
(including insulin); 3 ml size 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
IMAGING STUDIES (58030-58092), SEE ALSO CONTRAST 
AGENTS/DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (Q9950-Q9983) 
D 58030 Sciera! application of tantalum ring(s) for 
localization of lesions for proton beam 
therapy 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58035 Magnetic source imaging 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58037 Magnetic resonance 
cholangiopancreatography (M RCP) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58040 Topographic brain mapping 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58042 Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), low-field 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58055 Ultrasound guidance for multifetal pregnancy 
reduction(s), technical component (only to be 
used when the physician doing the reduction 
procedure does not perform the ultrasound, 
guidance is included in the CPT® code for 
multifetal pregnancy reduction - 59866) 
.'f e 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58080 Scintimammography 
(radioimmunoscintigraphy of the 
breast), unilateral, including supply of 
radiopharmaceutical 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58085 Fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (F-18 
FOG) imaging using dual-head coincidence 
detection system (non-dedicated PET scan) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58092 Electron beam computed tomography (also 
known as ultrafast CT, cine CT ) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
CT Scanner 
ASSISTED BREATHING SUPPLIES (S8096-S8210), 
SEE ALSO BREATHING AIDS (A7000-A7049); INTERMITTENT 
POSITIVE PRESSURE BREATHING DEVICES (E0500); 
OTHER BREATHING AIDS (E0605, E0606) 
D 58096 Portable peak flow meter 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58097 Asthma kit (including but not limited to 
portable peak expiratory flow meter, 
instructional video, brochure, and/or spacer) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58100 Holding chamber or spacer for use with an 
inhaler or nebulizer; without mask 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58101 Holding chamber or spacer for use with an 
inhaler or nebulizer; with mask 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58110 Peak expiratory flow rate (physician 
services) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58120 Oxygen contents, gaseous, 1 unit equals 
1 cubic foot 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8121 Oxygen contents, liquid, 1 unit equals 
1 pound 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 58130 lnterferential current stimulator, 2 channel 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8131 lnterferential current stimulator, 4 channel 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
.6. Revised code 
Iii Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
ei) Non-covered by Medicare 
EJ Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
450 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
0 S8185 Flutter device 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S8186 Swivel adapter 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S8189 Tracheostomy supply, not otherwise 
classified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S8210 Mucus trap 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
MISCELLANEOUS SUPPLIES AND SERVICES (S8265-S9152), 
SEE ALSO MISCELLANEOUS SUPPLIES AND SERVICES 
(S9381-S9485) 
0 S8265 Haberman feeder for cleft lip/palate 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S8270 Enuresis alarm, using auditory buzzer and/or 
vibration device 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8301 Infection control supplies, not otherwise 
specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8415 Supplies for home delivery of infant 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8420 Gradient pressure aid (sleeve and glove 
combination), custom made 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O S8421 Gradient pressure aid (sleeve and glove 
combination), ready made 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O S8422 Gradient pressure aid (sleeve), 
custom made, medium weight 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8423 Gradient pressure aid (sleeve), 
custom made, heavy weight 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O S8424 Gradient pressure aid (sleeve), ready made 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O S8425 Gradient pressure aid (glove), custom made, 
medium weight 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S8185 - S8950 
0 S8426 Gradient pressure aid (glove), custom made, 
heavy weight 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S8427 Gradient pressure aid (glove), ready made 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8428 Gradient pressure aid (gauntlet), ready made 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S8429 Gradient pressure exterior wrap 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S8430 Padding for compression bandage, roll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S8431 Compression bandage, roll 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8450 Splint, prefabricated, digit (specify digit by 
use of modifier) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S8451 Splint, prefabricated, wrist or ankle 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8452 Splint, prefabricated, elbow 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8460 Camisole, post-mastectomy 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8490 Insulin syringes (100 syringes, any size) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8930 Electrical stimulation of auricular 
acupuncture points; each 15 minutes of 
personal one-on-one contact with the patient 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8940 Equestrian/hippotherapy, per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8948 Application of a modality (requiring constant 
provider attendance) to one or more areas; 
low-level laser; each 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S8950 Complex lymphedema therapy, 
each 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
 Female only 
0 Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status ind icator
1i1m MIPScode
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
li!I Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
451 
S8990 - S9141 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (50012-S9999) 
452 
0 S8990
0 S8999
Physical or manipulative therapy performed 
for maintenance rather than restoration 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Resuscitation bag (for use by patient on 
artificial respiration during power failure or 
other catastrophic event) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9001 Home uterine monitor with or without 
associated nursing services 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9007 Ultrafiltration monitor 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9024 Paranasal sinus ultrasound 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9025 Omnicardiogram/cardiointegram 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9034 Extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy for 
gall stones (if performed with ercp, use 43265) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9055 Procuren or other growth factor preparation 
to promote wound healing 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9056 Coma stimulation per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9061 Home administration of aerosolized drug 
therapy (e.g., pentamidine); administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, 
care coordination, all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9083 Global fee urgent care centers 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9088 Services provided in an urgent care center 
(list in addition to code for service) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9090 Vertebral axial decompression, per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9097 Home visit for wound care 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 S9098 
0 S9110 
0 S9117 
0 S9122 
0 S9123 
0 S9124 
0 S9125
0 S9126 
0 S9127 
0 S9128 
0 S9129
0 S9131
0 S9140
0 S9141
Home visit, phototherapy services 
(e.g., Bili-lite), including equipment rental, 
nursing services, blood draw, supplies, 
and other services, per diem 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Telemonitoring of patient in their home, 
including all necessary equipment; computer 
system, connections, and software; 
maintenance; patient education and support; 
per month 
BETOS:22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Back school, per visit 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Home health aide or certified nurse 
assistant, providing care in the home; 
per hour 
BETOS:22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Nursing care, in the home; by registered 
nurse, per hour (use for general nursing 
care only, not to be used when CPT® codes 
99500-99602 can be used) -
BETOS:22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Nursing care, in the home; by licensed 
practical nurse, per hour 
-
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Respite care, in the home, per diem 
BETOS:22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Hospice care, in the home, per diem 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Social work visit, in the home, per diem 
BETOS:22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Speech therapy, in the home, per diem 
BETOS:22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Occupational therapy, in the home, per diem 
BETOS:22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Physical therapy; in the home, per diem 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Diabetic management program, follow-up 
visit to non-MD provider 
BETOS:22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Diabetic management program, follow-up 
visit to MD provider 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
A Revised code 
Ii Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D 59145 Insulin pump initiation, instruction in initial 
use of pump (pump not included) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59150 Evaluation by ocularist 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9152 Speech therapy, re-evaluation 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
HOME MANAGEMENT OF PREGNANCY (S9208-S9214) 
D 59208 Home management of preterm labor, 
including administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies or 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem (do not use this code 
with any home infusion per diem code) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59209 Home management of preterm premature 
rupture of membranes (PPROM), including 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies or equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem (do not use this code with any 
home infusion per diem code) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9211 Home management of gestational 
hypertension, includes administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, 
care coordination and all necessary supplies 
and equipment (drugs and nursing visits 
coded separately); per diem (do not 
use this code with any home infusion 
per diem code) 
i 0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59212 Home management of postpartum 
hypertension, includes administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, 
care coordination, and all necessary supplies 
and equipment (drugs and nursing visits 
coded separately), per diem (do not 
use this code with any home infusion 
per diem code) 
i 0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9213 Home management of preeclampsia, 
includes administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, and 
all necessary supplies and equipment (drugs 
and nursing services coded separately); 
per diem (do not use this code with any 
home infusion per diem code) 
i 0 
S9145-S9329 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59214 Home management of gestational diabetes, 
includes administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately); 
per diem (do not use this code with any 
home infusion per diem code) 
i o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
HOME INFUSION THERAPY (S9325-S9379), SEE ALSO 
HOME INFUSION THERAPY (S5497-S5523); HOME THERAPY 
SERVICES (S9490-S9810) 
D S9325 Home infusion therapy, pain management 
infusion; administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment, (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem (do not use this code 
with S9326, S9327 or S9328) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9326 Home infusion therapy, continuous (twenty­
four hours or more) pain management 
infusion; administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9327 Home infusion therapy, intermittent (less 
than twenty-four hours) pain management 
infusion; administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9328 Home infusion therapy, implanted pump 
pain management infusion; administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, 
care coordination, and all necessary supplies 
and equipment (drugs and nursing visits 
coded separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59329 Home infusion therapy, chemotherapy 
infusion; administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem (do not use this code 
with S9330 or S9331) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
llml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status indicator
11JW MIPS code
CP is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
453 
S9330 - S9348 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
454 
D S9330 Home infusion therapy, continuous (twenty­
four hours or more) chemotherapy infusion; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately}, 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9331 Home infusion therapy, intermittent (less than 
twenty-four hours) chemotherapy infusion; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9335 Home therapy, hemodialysis; administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, 
care coordination, and all necessary supplies 
and equipment (drugs and nursing services 
coded separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9336 Home infusion therapy, continuous 
anticoagulant infusion therapy 
(e.g., Heparin). administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9338 Home infusion therapy, immunotherapy, 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9339 Home therapy; peritoneal dialysis, 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination and 
all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9340 Home therapy; enteral nutrition; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(enteral formula and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9341 Home therapy; enteral nutrition via gravity; 
administrative services, professional pharmacy 
services, care coordination, and all necessary 
supplies and equipment (enteral formula and 
nursing visits coded separately}, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9342 Home therapy; enteral nutrition via pump; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(enteral formula and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9343 Home therapy; enteral nutrition via bolus; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(enteral formula and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9345 Home infusion therapy, anti-hemophilic 
agent infusion therapy (e.g., factor VIII); 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9346 Home infusion therapy, alpha-1-proteinase 
inhibitor (e.g., Prolastin); administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, 
care coordination, and all necessary supplies 
and equipment (drugs and nursing visits 
coded separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9347 Home infusion therapy, uninterrupted, 
long-term, controlled rate intravenous 
or subcutaneous infusion therapy 
(e.g., epoprostenol); administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9348 Home infusion therapy, sympathomimetic/ 
inotropic agent infusion therapy 
(e.g., Dobutamine); administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode 
.a. Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
EJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El) Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D S9349 Home infusion therapy, tocolytic infusion 
therapy; administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9351 Home infusion therapy, continuous or 
intermittent anti-emetic infusion therapy; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9353 Home infusion therapy, continuous insulin 
infusion therapy; administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies 
and equipment (drugs and nursing visits 
coded separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9355 Home infusion therapy, chelation therapy; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9357 Home infusion therapy, enzyme replacement 
intravenous therapy; (e.g., lmiglucerase); 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9359 Home infusion therapy, anti-tumor necrosis 
factor intravenous therapy; (e.g., lnfliximab); 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9361 Home infusion therapy, diuretic intravenous 
therapy; administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately}, 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S9349 - S9367 
D S9363 Home infusion therapy, anti-spasmotic 
therapy; administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9364 Home infusion therapy, total parenteral 
nutrition (TPN); administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment including standard TPN formula 
(lipids, specialty amino acid formulas, drugs 
other than in standard formula and nursing 
visits coded separately), per diem (do not 
use with home infusion codes S9365-S9368 
using daily volume scales) 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9365 Home infusion therapy, total parenteral 
nutrition (TPN); one liter per day, 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
including standard TPN formula (lipids, 
specialty amino acid formulas, drugs other 
than in standard formula and nursing visits 
coded separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9366 Home infusion therapy, total parenteral 
nutrition (TPN); more than one liter but no 
more than two liters per day, administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, 
care coordination, and all necessary 
supplies and equipment including standard 
TPN formula (lipids, specialty amino acid 
formulas, drugs other than in standard 
formula and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9367 Home infusion therapy, total parenteral 
nutrition (TPN); more than two liters but no 
more than three liters per day, administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, 
care coordination, and all necessary 
supplies and equipment including standard 
TPN formula (lipids, specialty amino acid 
formulas, drugs other than in standard 
formula and nursing visits coded separately}, 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
 Female only 
fl) Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = AP C Sta tus indicator 
(mJ MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
455 
S9368 - S9434 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
456 
D S9368 Home infusion therapy, total parenteral 
nutrition (TPN); more than three liters 
per day, administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
including standard TPN formula (lipids, 
specialty amino acid formulas, drugs other 
than in standard formula and nursing visits 
coded separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9370 Home therapy, intermittent anti-emetic 
injection therapy; administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9372 Home therapy; intermittent anticoagulant 
injection therapy (e.g., Heparin); 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
D S9376 Home infusion therapy, hydration therapy; 
more than two liters but no more than three 
liters per day, administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9377 Home infusion therapy, hydration therapy; 
more than three liters per day, administrative 
services, professional pharmacy services, 
care coordination, and all necessary supplies 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9379 Home infusion therapy, infusion therapy, not 
otherwise classified; administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem (do not use this code for flushing 
of infusion devices with Heparin to maintain 
patency) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
MISCELLANEOUS SUPPLIES AND SERVICES (S9381-S9485), 
SEE ALSO MISCELLANEOUS SUPPLIES AND SERVICES 
(S8265-S9152) 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9373 Home infusion therapy, hydration therapy; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem (do not use with hydration therapy 
codes S9374-S9377 using daily volume 
scales) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9374 Home infusion therapy, hydration therapy; 
one liter per day, administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9375 Home infusion therapy, hydration therapy; 
more than one liter but no more than two 
liters per day, administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9381 Delivery or service to high risk areas 
requiring escort or extra protection, per visit 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9401 Anticoagulation clinic, inclusive of all 
services except laboratory tests, per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9430 Pharmacy compounding and dispensing 
services 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9432 Medical foods for non-inborn errors of 
metabolism 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9433 Medical food nutritionally complete, 
administered orally, providing 100% of 
nutritional intake 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2008, 04 
D S9434 Modified solid food supplements for inborn 
errors of metabolism 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code 
• Revised code 
8 Carrier judgment 
l:J Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
m N 
d b M d 
n 
11,11 
on-covere 
Y e icare 
1:,1 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic-
CP! is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D S9435 Medical foods for inborn errors of 
metabolism 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9436 Childbirth preparation/lamaze classes, 
non-physician provider, per session 
5jt 0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59437 Childbirth refresher classes, non-physician 
provider, per session 
5it 0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9438 Cesarean birth classes, non-physician 
provider, per session 
5jt 0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9439 VBAC (vaginal birth after cesarean) classes, 
non-physician provider, per session 
5jt 0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9441 Asthma education, non-physician provider, 
per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9442 Birthing classes, non-physician provider, 
per session 
Jil 0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59443 Lactation classes, non-physician provider, 
per session 
5jt 0 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59444 Parenting classes, non-physician provider, 
per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59445 Patient education, not otherwise classified, 
non-physician provider, individual, 
per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59446 Patient education, not otherwise classified, 
non-physician provider, group, per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59447 Infant safety (including CPR) classes, 
non-physician provider, per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59449 Weight management classes, non-physician 
provider, per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S943S - S9480 
D S9451 Exercise classes, non-physician provider, 
per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59452 Nutrition classes, non-physician provider, 
per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59453 Smoking cessation classes, non-physician 
provider, per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9454 Stress management classes, non-physician 
provider, per session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59455 Diabetic management program, group 
session 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59460 Diabetic management program, nurse visit 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59465 Diabetic management program, dietitian visit 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59470 Nutritional counseling, dietitian visit 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59472 Cardiac rehabilitation program, non­
physician provider, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59473 Pulmonary rehabilitation program, 
non-physician provider, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59474 Enterostomal therapy by a registered nurse 
certified in enterostomal therapy, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59475 Ambulatory setting substance abuse 
treatment or detoxification services, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59476 Vestibular rehabilitation program, non­
physician provider, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D 59480 Intensive outpatient psychiatric services, 
per diem 
IZm 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Maleonly 
5it Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC App roved Procedure 
A2-23 = ASC Payment ind icator 
EillJ Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC S tatus Indicator
11mJ MIPScode
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
457 
S9482 - S9542 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D S9482 Family stabilization services, per 15 minutes 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9484 Crisis intervention mental health services, 
per hour 
tlllil 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9485 Crisis intervention mental health services, 
per diem 
tlllil 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
HOME THERAPY SERVICES (S9490-S9810), SEE ALSO 
HOME INFUSION THERAPY (S9325-S9379); HOME INFUSION 
THERAPY (S5497-S5523) 
D S9490 Home infusion therapy, corticosteroid 
infusion; administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
D S9494 Home infusion therapy, antibiotic, antiviral, or 
antifungal therapy; administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary surplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem (do not use this code 
with home infusion codes for hourly dosing 
schedules S9497-S9504) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9497 Home infusion therapy, antibiotic, antiviral, 
or antifungal therapy; once every 3 hours; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9500 Home infusion therapy, antibiotic, antiviral, 
or antifungal therapy; once every 24 hours; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9501 Home infusion therapy, antibiotic, antiviral, 
or antifungal therapy; once every 12 hours; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9502 Home infusion therapy, antibiotic, antiviral, 
or antifungal therapy; once every 8 hours, 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9503 Home infusion therapy, antibiotic, antiviral, 
or antifungal; once every 6 hours; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9504 Home infusion therapy, antibiotic, antiviral, 
or antifungal; once every 4 hours; 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9529 Routine venipuncture for collection of 
specimen(s), single home bound, nursing 
home, or skilled nursing facility patient 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
D S9537 Home therapy; hematopoietic hormone 
injection therapy (e.g., erythropoietin, 
G-CSF, GM-CSF); administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part 8 
D S9538 Home transfusion of blood product(s); 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination and 
all necessary supplies and equipment (blood 
products, drugs, and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9542 Home injectable therapy, not otherwise 
classified, including administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETO$: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code 
.A. Revised code 
131 Carrier judgment 
liJ Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
ITI N 
d b  
d 
r.t 
Mil 
on-covere 
Y Me icare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
458 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
D S9558 Home injectable therapy; growth hormone, 
including administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9559 Home injectable therapy, interferon, including 
administrative services, professional 
pharmacy services, care coordination, 
and all necessary supplies and equipment 
(drugs and nursing visits coded separately), 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9560 Home injectable therapy; hormonal therapy 
(e.g.; leuprolide, goserelin), including 
administrative services, professional pharmacy 
services, care coordination, and all necessary 
supplies and equipment (drugs and nursing 
visits coded separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
... D S9562 Home injectable therapy, palivizumab or 
other monoclonal antibody for rsv, including 
administrative services, professional pharmacy 
services, care coordination, and all necessary 
supplies and equipment (drugs and nursing 
visits coded separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
• D S9563 Home injectable therapy, immunotherapy, 
including administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2023, 02 
D S9590 Home therapy, irrigation therapy (e.g., sterile 
irrigation of an organ or anatomical 
cavity); including administrative services, 
professional pharmacy services, care 
coordination, and all necessary supplies and 
equipment (drugs and nursing visits coded 
separately), per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9810 Home therapy; professional pharmacy 
services for provision of infusion, specialty 
drug administration, and/or disease state 
management, not otherwise classified, 
per hour (do not use this code with any 
per diem code) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
S9558 - S9989 
VARIOUS SERVICES, FEES, AND COSTS (S9900-S9999) 
D S9900 Services by a Journal-listed Christian 
science practitioner for the purpose of 
healing, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9901 Services by a journal-listed christian science 
nurse, per hour 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9960 Ambulance service, conventional air 
services, nonemergency transport, one way 
(fixed wing) 
BETOS: 01A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9961 Ambulance service, conventional air service, 
nonemergency transport, one way (rotary 
wing) 
BETOS: 01A Ambulance 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9970 Health club membership, annual 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9975 Transplant related lodging, meals and 
transportation, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9976 Lodging, per diem, not otherwise classified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B
D S9977 Meals, per diem, not otherwise specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9981 Medical records copying fee, administrative 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9982 Medical records copying fee, per page 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9986 Not medically necessary service (patient is 
aware that service not medically necessary) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9988 Services provided as part of a Phase I 
clinical trial 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9989 Services provided outside of the United 
States of America (list in addition to code(s) 
for services(s)) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
cl' Male only 
4 Female only 
0 Age 
Al.-Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ID Paid under the DME fee schedule 
lil!m MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
459 
S9990 - S9999 
Temporary National Codes (Non-Medicare) (S0012-S9999) 
460 
D S9990 Services provided as part of a Phase II 
clinical trial 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9991 Services provided as part of a Phase Ill 
clinical trial 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9992 Transportation costs to and from trial location 
and local transportation costs (e.g., fares for 
taxicab or bus) for clinical trial participant and 
one caregiver/companion 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9994 Lodging costs (e.g., hotel charges) for 
clinical trial participant and one caregiver/ 
companion 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9996 Meals for clinical trial participant and one 
caregiver/companion 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D S9999 Sales tax 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2009, Q2 
• New code 
A Revised code 
l3I Carrier judgment 
l!J Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
eJ Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
National Codes Established for State Medicaid Agencies (Tl 000-TS999) 
T1000-T1022 
NATIONAL CODES ESTABLISHED FOR STATE 
OTHER SERVICES (T1013-T1018) 
MEDICAID AGENCIES (T1000-T5999) 
NURSING SERVICES (T1 000-T1005), SEE ALSO ADDITIONAL 
NURSING SERVICES (T1030-T1031) 
D T1000 Private duty / independent nursing 
service(s)- licensed, up to 15 minutes 
E 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2009, 02 
D T1001 Nursing assessment / evaluation 
E 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1002 RN services, up to 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1003 LPN/LVN services, up to 15 minutes 
tllm 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1004 Services of a qualified nursing aide, 
up to 15 minutes 
E 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1005 Respite care services, up to 15 minutes E 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE SERVICES 
(T1006-T1012) 
D T1006 Alcohol and/or substance abuse services, 
family/couple counseling 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1007 Alcohol and/or substance abuse services, 
treatment plan development and/or 
modification 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1009 Child sitting services for children of the 
individual receiving alcohol and/or substance 
abuse services 
O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1010 Meals for individuals receiving alcohol and/or 
substance abuse services (when meals not 
included in the program) 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1012 Alcohol and/or substance abuse services, 
skills development 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D no13 
0 T1014 
D no1s 
D no16 
D no11 
D no1s 
Sign language or oral interpretive services, 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Telehealth transmission, per minute, 
professional services bill separately 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Clinic visit/encounter, all-inclusive 
lillm 
BETOS:Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
Case management, each 15 minutes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Targeted case management, each 
15 minutes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
School-based individualized education 
program (IEP) services, bundled 
BETOS:Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
HOME HEALTH SERVICES (T1019-T1022) 
D T1019 Personal care services, per 15 minutes, 
not for an inpatient or resident of a 
hospital, nursing facility, ICF/MR or IMO, 
part of the individualized plan of treatment 
(code may not be used to identify services 
provided by home health aide or certified 
nurse assistant) 
E 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1020 Personal care services, per diem, not 
for an inpatient or resident of a hospital, 
nursing facility, ICF/MR or IMO, part 
of the individualized plan of treatment 
(code may not be used to identify services 
provided by home health aide or certified 
nurse assistant) 
E 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1021 Home health aide or certified nurse 
assistant, per visit 
E 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1022 Contracted home health agency services, 
all services provided under contract, 
per day 
E 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
fl Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment Indicator 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
lillm MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
461 
0 
0 
0 
-I ... 
0 
IIJ 
IIJ 
z 
 
0 z 
> 
r-
C 
m "' 
m "' 
1:11:1 
r-iii 
::c 
m 
C .,, 
0 
::a "' 
.... 
m 
m 
C n 
:!: 
C t 
m z 
m 
Ill 
C 
C 
C 
N 
0 
0 
N ..... 
ti\ 
N 
0 
I"'" 
I-
°' °' 
in 
0 
0 
0 ... 
t: 
11'1 
w u 
z 
w 
\!1 < 
C 
<u
C 
w :E 
.... 
11'1 
a: 
0 
u. 
C 
w :c 
11'1 
::::i 
m 
11'1 
w 
11'1 
w 
C 
0 
u 
..I < 
z 
0 
T1023 -T2002 
National Codes Established for State Medicaid Agencies (T1 OOO-T5999) 
SCREENINGS, ASSESSMENTS, AND TREATMENTS, 
INDIVIDUAL AND FAMILY (T1023-T1029) 
DOULA BIRTH WORKER SERVICES (T1032-T1033) 
D T1032 Services performed by a doula birth worker, 
D T1023 Screening to determine the appropriateness 
of consideration of an individual for 
participation in a specified program, project 
or treatment protocol, per encounter 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1024 Evaluation and treatment by an integrated, 
specialty team contracted to provide 
coordinated care to multiple or severely 
handicapped children, per encounter 
O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1025 Intensive, extended multidisciplinary services 
provided in a clinic setting to children with 
complex medical, physical, mental and 
psychosocial impairments, per diem 
O 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• D T1026 Intensive, extended multidisciplinary services
provided in a clinic setting to children with 
complex medical, physical, mental and 
psychosocial impairments, per hour 
O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1027 Family training and counseling for child 
development, per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 
D T1028 Assessment of home, physical and family 
environment, to determine suitability to meet 
patient's medical needs 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1029 Comprehensive environmental lead 
investigation, not including laboratory 
analysis, per dwelling 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
per 15 minutes 
J? O 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
D T1033 Services performed by a doula birth worker, 
per diem 
J?o 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Coding Clinic: 2022, 04 
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES (T1040-T1041) 
D T1040 Medicaid certified community behavioral 
health clinic services, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1041 Medicaid certified community behavioral 
health clinic services, per month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
MISCELLANEOUS SERVICES AND SUPPLIES (T1502-T1999) 
D T1502 Administration of oral, intramuscular and/ 
or subcutaneous medication by health care 
agency/professional, per visit 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1503 Administration of medication, other than oral 
and/or injectable, by a health care agency/ 
professional, per visit 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T1505 Electronic medication compliance 
management device, includes all 
components and accessories, not otherwise 
classified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
ADDITIONAL NURSING SERVICES (T1030-T1031), SEE ALSO 
NURSING SERVICES (T1000-T1005) 
D T1999 Miscellaneous therapeutic items and 
supplies, retail purchases, not otherwise 
classified; identify product in "remarks" 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
462 
D T1030 Nursing care, in the home, by registered 
nurse, per diem 
IIJllJ 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (T2001-T2007) 
D T1031 Nursing care, in the home, by licensed 
practical nurse, per diem 
IIJllJ 
BETOS: Z2 Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2001 Non-emergency transportation; patient 
attendant/escort 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2002 Non-emergency transportation; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• New code
A Revised code 
l9 Carrier judgment 
DJ Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
rn N 
db M d' 
r.l 
IMI on-covere 
y e 1care 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
National Codes Established for State Medicaid Agencies (Tl OOO-T5999)
T2003-T2033 
D T2003 Non-emergency transportation; 
encounter/trip 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2004 Non-emergency transport; commercial 
carrier, multi-pass 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2005 Non-emergency transportation; stretcher van 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2007 Transportation waiting time, air ambulance 
and non-emergency vehicle, one-half (1/2) 
hour increments 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PREADMISSION SCREENING (T2010, T2011) 
D T2010 Preadmission screening and resident review 
(PASRR) level I identification screening, 
per screen 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2011 Preadmission screening and resident review 
(PASRR) level II evaluation, per evaluation 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
WAIVER SERVICES (T2012-T2041) 
D T2012 Habilitation, educational; waiver, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2013 Habilitation, educational, waiver; per hour 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2014 Habilitation, prevocational, waiver; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2015 Habilitation, prevocational, waiver; per hour 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2016 Habilitation, residential, waiver; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2017 Habilitation, residential, waiver; 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2018 Habilitation, supported employment, waiver; 
per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 T2019 Habilitation, supported employment, waiver; 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 T2020 Day habilitation, waiver; per diem 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 T2021 Day habilitation, waiver; per 15 minutes 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 T2022 Case management, per month 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 T2023 Targeted case management; per month 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 T2024 Service assessmenUplan of care 
development, waiver 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 T2025 Waiver services; not otherwise 
specified (NOS) 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
0 T2026 Specialized childcare, waiver; per diem 
BETOS:Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O T2027 Specialized childcare, waiver; 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O T2028 Specialized supply, not otherwise specified, 
waiver 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O T2029 Specialized medical equipment, not 
otherwise specified, waiver 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O T2030 Assisted living, waiver; per month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O T2031 Assisted living; waiver, per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2032 Residential care, not otherwise specified 
(NOS), waiver; per month 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
O T2033 Residential care, not otherwise specified 
(NOS), waiver; per diem 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
a 
a 
c1' Male only 
i Female only 
8 Age 
A2 -Z3 = ASC Payment indica tor 
A -Y - AP C Status indicator 
Im) MIPScode 
ASC - ASC Approved Procedure 
lilml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
(PT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
463 
-I 
IV 
0 
0 
w 
I 
-I 
IV 
0 
w 
w 
z 
 
0 
z 
)> 
r­n 
0 
0 
m 
U\ 
m 
U\ 
co 
!: 
U\ 
:::c 
m 
0 .,, 
0 
:::ic, 
U\ 
-t 
m 
m 
0 n 
!: 
0 
)> " 
m 
z 
n 
m 
U\ 
0 
0 
0 
-t 
UI '° '° 
1ft 
N 
1ft 
I-
"IS' "" 
N 
I-
0\ i 
0 
0 
0 -!=. "' 
w 
V z
w" 
c( 
Q 
c( 
 
Q 
w 
:ii: 
w 
"' 
a: 
0 
u. 
Q 
w 
:c "' 
::::i 
"' 
w "' 
w 
Q 
0 
V .... 
c( z 
0 
!cc 
z 
T2034-T4525 
National Codes Established for State Medicaid Agencies (Tl 000-TS999) 
0 T2034 
0 T2035 
0 T2036 
Crisis intervention, waiver; per diem 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Utility services to support medical equipment 
and assistive technology/devices, waiver 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Therapeutic camping, overnight, waiver; 
each session 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2037 Therapeutic camping, day, waiver; 
each session 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2038 Community transition, waiver; per service 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2039 Vehicle modifications, waiver; per service 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2040 Financial management, self-directed, waiver; 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2041 Supports brokerage, self-directed, waiver;
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
HOSPICE CARE (T2042-T2046) 
D T2042 Hospice routine home care; per diem 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2043 Hospice continuous home care; per hour 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2044 Hospice inpatient respite care; per diem 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2045 Hospice general inpatient care; per diem 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2046 Hospice long term care, room and board 
only; per diem 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
PREVOCATIONAL HABILITATION WAIVER SERVICES (T2047) 
D T2047 Habilitation, prevocational, waiver; 
per 15 minutes 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
LONG-TERM RESIDENTIAL CARE (T2048) 
0 T2048 Behavioral health; long-term care residential 
(non-acute care in a residential treatment 
program where stay is typically longer than 
30 days), with room and board, per diem 1ml 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
NON-EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION FEES (T2049) 
0 T2049 Non-emergency transportation; stretcher 
van, mileage; per mile 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORTS BROKERAGE 
SERVICES, PER DIEM (T2050-T2051) 
D T2050 Financial management, self-directed, waiver; 
per diem 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T2051 Supports brokerage, self-directed, waiver; 
per diem 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
SERVICES RELATED TO BREAST MILK (T2101) 
D T2101 Human breast milk processing, storage 
and distribution only 
-'? e 
BETOS: 22 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
INCONTINENCE SUPPLIES (T4521-T4545) 
m T4521 Adult sized disposable incontinence product, 
brief/diaper, small, each 
e 
BETOS: O1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4522 Adult sized disposable incontinence product, 
brief/diaper, medium, each 
e 
BETOS: O1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
£ii T4523 Adult sized disposable incontinence product, 
brief/diaper, large, each 
e 
BETOS: O1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4524 Adult sized disposable incontinence product, 
brief/diaper, extra large, each 
e 
BETOS: D 1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
£ii T4525 Adult sized disposable incontinence product,
protective underwear/pull-on, small size, 
each 
e 
BETOS: O1A 
Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• Newcode
... Revised code 
El Carrier judgment
m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare m Non-covered by Medicare 
D Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding a
464 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
National Codes Established for State Medicaid Agencies (Tl 00O-T5999) 
T4526-T5999 
m T4526 Adult sized disposable incontinence product, 
m T4538 Diaper service, reusable diaper, each diaper 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
protective underwear/pull-on, medium size, 
each 
o 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m r4539 Incontinence product, diaper/brief, reusable, 
any size, each 
m T4527 Adult sized disposable incontinence product, 
protective underwear/pull-on, large size, 
each 
o 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4528 Adult sized disposable incontinence product, 
protective underwear/pull-on, extra large 
size, each 
o 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4529 Pediatric sized disposable incontinence 
product, brief/diaper, small/medium size, 
each 
o 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4530 Pediatric sized disposable incontinence 
product, brief/diaper, large size, each 
o 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4531 Pediatric sized disposable incontinence 
product, protective underwear/pull-on, 
small/medium size, each 
o 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4532 Pediatric sized disposable incontinence 
product, protective underwear/pull-on, large 
size, each 
o 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4533 Youth sized disposable incontinence product, 
brief/diaper, each 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4534 Youth sized disposable incontinence product, 
protective underwear/pull-on, each 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4535 Disposable liner/shield/guard/pad/ 
undergarment, for incontinence, each 
BETOS: D 1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4536 Incontinence product, protective 
underwear/pull-on, reusable, any size, each 
BETOS: D1 A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4537 Incontinence product, protective underpad, 
reusable, bed size, each 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4540 
0 T4541 
0 T4542 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Incontinence product, protective underpad, 
reusable, chair size, each 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Incontinence product, disposable underpad, 
large, each 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Incontinence product, disposable underpad, 
small size, each 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4543 Adult sized disposable incontinence product, 
protective brief/diaper, above extra large, 
 
0 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4544 Adult sized disposable incontinence product, 
protective underwear/pull-on, above extra 
large, each 
o 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
m T4545 Incontinence product, disposable, penile 
wrap, each 
r:!' 
BETOS: D1A Medical/surgical supplies 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
OTHER AND UNSPECIFIED SUPPLIES (T5001-T5999) 
D T5001 Positioning seat for persons with special 
orthopedic needs 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
D T5999 Supply, not otherwise specified 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
d' Maleonly 
-'?- Female only 
8 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedur e 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment Indicator 
Ell] Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indic ator 
Lm) MIPScode 
CPT0 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
465 
z 
 
0 z 
> 
r-n 
0 
C 
m 
VI 
m 
VI 
0, 
C 
VI 
:::c 
m 
C .,, 
0 
::ICI 
VI 
-I 
m 
3: 
m 
C 
n 
> 
C > 
Cl 
m z 
Q 
m 
VI 
=i ... 
0 
0 
0 
-I 
UI '° '° 
NOTES 
Coronavirus Diagnostic Panel (U0001-U0002) 
CORONAVIRUS DIAGNOSTIC PANEL 
(U0001-U0002) 
B U0001 CDC 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) 
real-time RT-PCR diagnostic panel 
A 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2020, Q2 
B U0002 2019-nCoV Coronavirus. SARS-CoV-2/2019-
nCoV (COVID-19), any technique, multiple 
types or subtypes (includes all targets), 
non-CDC 
A 
BETOS: T1 H 
Lab tests - other 
(Non-Medicare fee schedule) 
Price established by carriers 
Coding Clinic: 2020, 02 
d" Male only 
i Female only 
(l Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
llLlII Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
U000l - U0002 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
l,llllJ MIPS code 
467 
NOTES 
Vision Services (V2020-V2799) 
VISION SERVICES (V2020-V2799) 
SPECTACLE FRAMES (V2020, V2025) 
I!) V2020 Frames, purchases 
lilmlA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
li3 V2025 Deluxe frame 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
LENSES, SINGLE VISION (V2100-V2199) 
B V2100 Sphere, single vision, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2101 Sphere, single vision, plus or minus 
4.12 to plus or minus 7.00d, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2102 Sphere, single vision, plus or minus 
7.12 to plus or minus 20.00d, per lens Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2103 Spherocylinder, single vision, piano to plus 
or minus 4.00d sphere, .12 to 2.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! V2104 Spherocylinder, single vision, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, 2.12 to 4.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2105 Spherocylinder, single vision, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, 4.25 to 6.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I! V2106 Spherocylinder, single vision, piano to plus 
or minus 4.00d sphere, over 6.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
El!IA 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2107 Spherocylinder, single vision, plus or minus 
4.25 to plus or minus 7.00 sphere, 
.12 to 2.00d cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2108 Spherocylinder, single vision, plus or minus 
4.25d to plus or minus 7.00d sphere, 
2.12 to 4.00d cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml V2109 Spherocylinder, single vision, plus or minus 
4.25 to plus or minus 7.00d sphere, 
ml V2110 
4.25 to 6.00d cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Spherocylinder, single vision, plus or minus 
4.25 to 7.00d sphere, over 6.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
V2020-V2206 
ml V2111 Spherocylinder, single vision, plus or minus 
7.25 to plus or minus 12.00d sphere, 
.25 to 2.25d cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml V2112 Spherocylinder, single vision, plus or minus 
7.25 to plus or minus 12.00d sphere, 
2.25d to 4.00d cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2113 Spherocylinder, single vision, plus or minus 
7.25 to plus or minus 12.00d sphere, 
4.25 to 6.00d cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2114 Spherocylinder, single vision, sphere over 
plus or minus 12.00d, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml V2115 Lenticular, (myodisc), per lens, 
single vision 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml V2118 Aniseikonic lens, single vision 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
I!) V2121 Lenticular lens, per lens, single 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2199 Not otherwise classified, single vision lens A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LENSES, BIFOCALS (V2200-V2299) 
B V2200 Sphere, bifocal, piano to plus or minus 
4.00d, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2201 Sphere, bifocal, plus or minus 4.12 to plus or 
minus 7.00d, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml V2202 Sphere, bifocal, plus or minus 7.12 to plus or 
minus 20.00d, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml V2203 Spherocylinder, bifocal, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, 0.12 to 2.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2204 Spherocylinder, bifocal, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, 2.12 to 4.00d cylinder, 
B V2205 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Spherocylinder, bifocal, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, 4.25 to 6.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ml V2206 Spherocylinder, bifocal, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, over 6.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
cl' Male only 
-\l Femaleonly 
0 Age 
A2·Z3•ASCPaymentlndJcator 
A -Y APC Stat us indicator 
Im) MIPS code 
ASC - ASC App roved Procedure 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
469 
V2207 -V2318 
Vision Services (V2020-V2799) 
B V2207 Spherocylinder, bifocal, plus or minus 4.25 
to plus or minus 7.00d sphere, .12 to 2.00d 
cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2208 Spherocylinder, bifocal, plus or minus 4.25 
to plus or minus 7 .00d sphere, 2.12 to 4.00d 
cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2209 Spherocylinder, bifocal, plus or minus 4.25 
to plus or minus 7.00d sphere, 4.25 to 6.00d 
cylinder, per lens 
ElII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2210 Spherocylinder, bifocal, plus or minus 4.25 
to plus or minus 7.00d sphere, over 6.00d 
cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2211 Spherocylinder, bifocal, plus or minus 7.25 
to plus or minus 12.00d sphere, .25 to 2.25d 
cylinder, per lens 
ElII A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2212 Spherocylinder, bifocal, plus or minus 7.25 to 
plus or minus 12.00d sphere, 2.25 to 4.00d 
cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2213 Spherocylinder, bifocal, plus or minus 7.25 to 
plus or minus 12.00d sphere, 4.25 to 6.00d 
cylinder, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2214 Spherocylinder, bifocal, sphere over plus or 
minus 12.00d, per lens 
ElII A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2215 Lenticular (myodisc), per lens, bifocal Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2218 Aniseikonic, per lens, bifocal 
ElII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2219 Bifocal seg width over 28mm 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2220 Bifocal add over 3.25d 
El!JA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EJ V2221 Lenticular lens, per lens, bifocal 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2299 Specialty bifocal (by report) 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2302 Sphere, trifocal, plus or minus 7.12 to 
plus or minus 20.00, per lens 
E3 A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2303 Spherocylinder, trifocal, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, .12-2.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
EDA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2304 Spherocylinder, trifocal, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, 2.25-4.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
El!JA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2305 Spherocylinder, trifocal, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, 4.25 to 6.00 cylinder, 
per lens 
EDA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2306 Spherocylinder, trifocal, piano to plus or 
minus 4.00d sphere, over 6.00d cylinder, 
per lens 
EDA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2307 Spherocylinder, trifocal, plus or minus 
4.25 to plus or minus 7.00d sphere, 
.12 to 2.00d cylinder, per lens 
E3 A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2308 Spherocylinder, trifocal, plus or minus 
4.25 to plus or minus 7.00d sphere, 
2.12 to 4.00d cylinder, per lens 
E3 A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2309 Spherocylinder, trifocal, plus or minus 
4.25 to plus or minus 7.00d sphere, 
4.25 to 6.00d cylinder, per lens 
E3 A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2310 Spherocylinder, trifocal, plus or minus 
4.25 to plus or minus 7.00d sphere, over 
6.00d cylinder, per lens 
E3 A 
BETOS: O 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2311 Spherocylinder, trifocal, plus or minus 
7.25 to plus or minus 12.00d sphere, 
.25 to 2.25d cylinder, per lens 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2312 Spherocylinder, trifocal, plus or minus 
7.25 to plus or minus 12.00d sphere, 
2.25 to 4.00d cylinder, per lens 
ElII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2313 Spherocylinder, trifocal, plus or minus 
7.25 to plus or minus 12.00d sphere, 
LENSES, TRIFOCAL (V2300-V2399) 
4.25 to 6.00d cylinder, per lens 
E3 A 
470 
B V2300 Sphere, trifocal, piano to plus or minus 
4.00d, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2301 Sphere, trifocal, plus or minus 4.12 to 
plus or minus 7.00d, per lens 
E3 A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2314 Spherocylinder, trifocal, sphere over 
plus or minus 12.00d, per lens 
E3 A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2315 Lenticular, (myodisc), per lens, trifocal E3 A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2318 Aniseikonic lens, trifocal 
El!JA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• New code 
... Revised code 
B Carrier judgment m Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
m N 
d b  M d. 
r.l 
1,11,,1 
on-covere 
Y e 1care 
1::,1 Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Vision Services (V2020-V2799) 
B V2319 Trifocal seg width over 28 mm 
ElIIA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2320 Trifocal add over 3.25d 
ElIIA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EJ V2321 Lenticular lens, per lens, trifocal 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2399 Specialty trifocal (by report) 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LENSES, ASPHERICAL AND VARIABLE SPHERICITY 
(V2410-V2499) 
B V2410 Variable asphericity lens, single vision, 
full field, glass or plastic, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2430 Variable asphericity lens, bifocal, full field, 
glass or plastic, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2499 Variable sphericity lens, other type 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
ASSORTED CONTACT LENSES (V2500-V2599) 
B V2500 Contact lens, PMMA, spherical, 
per lens 
ElIIA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2501 Contact lens, PMMA, toric or prism ballast, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2502 Contact lens, PMMA, bifocal, per lens Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2503 Contact lens, PMMA, color vision deficiency, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2510 Contact lens, gas permeable, spherical, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2511 Contact lens, gas permeable, toric, prism 
ballast, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2512 Contact lens, gas permeable, bifocal, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2513 Contact lens, gas permeable, extended 
wear, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EJ V2520 Contact lens, hydrophilic, spherical, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EJ V2521 Contact lens, hydrophilic, toric, or prism 
ballast, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
V2319-V2627 
EJ V2522 Contact lens, hydrophilic, bifocal, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EJ V2523 Contact lens, hydrophilic, extended wear, 
per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EJ V2524 Contact lens, hydrophilic, spherical, 
photochromic additive, per lens 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
li!J V2525 Contact lens, hydrophilic, dual focus, 
per lens 
o E1
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
• li!J V2526 Contact lens, hydrophilic, with blue-violet
filter, per lens 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B V2530 Contact lens, scleral, gas impermeable, 
per lens (for contact lens modification, 
see 92325) 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EJ V2531 Contact lens, scleral, gas permeable, 
per lens (for contact lens modification, 
see 92325) 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2599 Contact lens, other type 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LOW AND NEAR VISION AIDS (V2600-V2615) 
B V2600 Hand held low vision aids and other 
nonspectacle mounted aids 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2610 Single lens spectacle mounted low vision 
aids 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2615 Telescopic and other compound lens 
system, including distance vision telescopic, 
near vision telescopes and compound 
microscopic lens system 
A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
EYE PROSTHETICS AND SERVICES (V2623-V2629) 
EJ V2623 Prosthetic eye, plastic, custom 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2624 Polishing/resurfacing of ocular 
prosthesis 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
S V2625 Enlargement of ocular prosthesis 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2626 Reduction of ocular prosthesis 
Elli A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
E V2627 Scleral cover shell 
Elli A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
d' Male only 
J?. Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2-23 = ASC Payment indicator 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A -Y = APC Status indicator 
a!W MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
471 
V2628-V2799 
B V2628 Fabrication and fitting of ocular 
conformer 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2629 Prosthetic eye, other type 
A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
LENSES, INTRAOCULAR (V2630-V2632) 
l?J V2630 Anterior chamber intraocular 
lens 
N1 ED ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l?J V2631 Iris supported intraocular 
lens 
N1 ED ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l?J V2632 Posterior chamber intraocular 
lens 
N1 llLIII ASC N 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-32, 120.2 
VISION SERVICES (V2700-V2799) 
B V2700 Balance lens, per lens 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
m V2702 Deluxe lens feature 
E1 
BETOS: D1 F Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B V2710 Slab off prism, glass or plastic, 
per lens 
EDA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2715 Prism, per lens 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2718 Press-on lens, Fresnel! prism, per lens llLIII A 
BETOS: D 1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2730 Special base curve, glass or plastic, 
per lens 
llLIIIA 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l?J V2744 Tint, photochromatic, per lens 
llLIII A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l?J V2745 Addition to lens; tint, any color, solid, 
gradient or equal, excludes photochromatic, 
any lens material, per lens 
llLIII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l?J V2750 Anti-reflective coating, per lens 
llLIII A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l?J V2755 U-V lens, per lens 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2756 Eye glass case 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B V2760 Scratch resistant coating, per lens 
llLIII E1 
BETOS: 01F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l?J V2761 Mirror coating, any type, solid, gradient or 
equal, any lens material, per lens 
B 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Vision Services (V2O2O-V2799) 
l?J V2762 Polarization, any lens material, 
per lens 
EDE1 
BETOS: 01F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2770 Occluder lens, per lens 
ED A 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2780 Oversize lens, per lens 
ED A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2781 Progressive lens, per lens 
B 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
l?J V2782 Lens, index 1.54 to 1.65 plastic or 1.60 to 
1. 79 glass, excludes polycarbonate,
per lens
llLIIIA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices
l?J V2783 Lens, index greater than or equal to 
1.66 plastic or greater than or equal to 
1.80 glass, excludes polycarbonate, 
per lens 
EDA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
l?J V2784 Lens, polycarbonate or equal, any index, 
per lens 
llLIIIA 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
B V2785 Processing, preserving and transporting 
corneal tissue 
F4 ASC F 
BETOS: D1 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-4, 200.1 
l?J V2786 Specialty occupational multifocal lens, 
per lens 
EDE1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
El V2787 Astigmatism correcting function of 
intraocular lens 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(7) 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-14, 40.9; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 120.1; 100-4, Chapter-32, 120.2 
El V2788 Presbyopia correcting function of 
intraocular lens 
E1 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(7) 
Pub: 100-4, Chapter-14, 40.9; 100-4, 
Chapter-32, 120.1; 100-4, Chapter-32, 120.2 
B V2790 Amniotic membrane for surgical 
reconstruction, per procedure 
N1 ASC N 
BETOS: Z2 
Undefined codes 
Other carrier priced 
B V2797 Vision supply, accessory and/or service 
component of another HCPCS 
vision code 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
B V2799 Vision item or service, miscellaneous 
A 
BETOS: 01 F 
Prosthetic/Orthotic devices 
• New code 
­ Revised code 
B Carrier judgment 
m Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
li!l) Non-covered by Medicare 
® Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
472 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Hearing Services (VS008-VS364) 
HEARING SERVICES (V5008-V5364) 
HEARING ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS (V5008-V5020) 
li!il V5008 Hearing screening 
E1 
BETOS: 01F Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
EJ V5010 Assessment for hearing aid 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5011 Fitting/orientation/checking of hearing aid E 1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5014 Repair/modification of a hearing aid 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5020 Conformity evaluation 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
HEARING AID, MONAURAL (V5030-V5060) 
EJ V5030 Hearing aid, monaural, body worn, 
air conduction 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5040 Hearing aid, monaural, body worn, 
bone conduction 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5050 Hearing aid, monaural, in the ear 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5060 Hearing aid, monaural, behind the ear 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
MISCELLANEOUS HEARING SERVICES AND SUPPLIES 
(V5070-V5110) 
EJ V5070 Glasses, air conduction 
E1 
BETOS: 01F Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A 7 
EJ VSOBO Glasses, bone conduction 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
V5008-V5181 
EJ V5090 Dispensing fee, unspecified hearing aid 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5095 Semi-implantable middle ear hearing 
prosthesis 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5100 Hearing aid, bilateral, body worn 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5110 Dispensing fee, bilateral 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
HEARING AIDS (V5120-V5267) 
EJ V5120 Binaural, body 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5130 Binaural, in the ear 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5140 Binaural, behind the ear 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5150 Binaural, glasses 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5160 Dispensing fee, binaural 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5171 Hearing aid, contralateral routing device, 
monaural, in the ear (ite) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5172 Hearing aid, contralateral routing device, 
monaural, in the canal (itc) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
EJ V5181 Hearing aid, contralateral routing device, 
monaural, behind the ear (bte) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
cl' Male only 
i Female only 
fl' Age 
A2 - Z3 = ASC Payment indicator 
A-Y = APC Status indicator 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
ED Paid under the DME fee schedule 
IIJIII MIPS code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
473 
V5190-V5250 
Hearing Services (V5008-V5364) 
474 
El V5190 Hearing aid, contralateral routing, monaural, 
glasses 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5200 Dispensing fee, contralateral, monaural 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5211 Hearing aid, contralateral routing system, 
binaural, ite/ite 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5212 Hearing aid, contralateral routing system, 
,,-
binaural, ite/itc 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5213 Hearing aid, contralateral routing system, 
binaural, ite/bte 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5214 Hearing aid, contralateral routing system, 
binaural, itc/itc 
E1 
BETOS: O1F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5215 Hearing aid, contralateral routing system, 
binaural, itc/bte 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5221 Hearing aid, contralateral routing system, 
binaural, bte/bte 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5230 Hearing aid, contralateral routing system, 
binauraL glasses 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5240 Dispensing fee, contralateral routing system, 
binaural 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5241 Dispensing fee, monaural hearing aid, 
any type 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
El V5242 Hearing aid, analog, monaural, 
CIC (completely in the ear canal) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
El V5243 Hearing aid, analog, monaural, 
ITC (in the canal} 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A 7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5244 Hearing aid, digitally programmable analog, 
monaural, CIC 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
El V5245 Hearing aid, digitally programmable, analog, 
monaural, ITC 
E1 
BETOS: O1F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5246 Hearing aid, digitally programmable analog, 
monaural, ITE (in the ear) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5247 Hearing aid, digitally programmable 
analog, monaural, BTE (behind the ear) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5248 Hearing aid, analog, binaural, CIC 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5249 Hearing aid, analog, binaural, ITC 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5250 Hearing aid, digitally programmable analog, 
binaural, CIC 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
• New code 
... Revised code m Carrier judgment 
El Special coverage instructions apply 
D Not payable by Medicare 
ml Non-covered by Medicare 
El Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic-
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Associatian. All rights reserved. 
Hearing Services (VS008-V5364) 
D V5251 Hearing aid, digitally programmable analog, 
binaural, ITC 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5252 Hearing aid, digitally programmable, 
binaural, ITE 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5253 Hearing aid, digitally programmable, 
binaural, BTE 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5254 Hearing aid, digital, monaural, CIC 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5255 Hearing aid, digital, monaural, ITC 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5256 Hearing aid, digital, monaural, ITE 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5257 Hearing aid, digital, monaural, BTE 
E1 
BETOS: O 1 F Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5258 Hearing aid, digital, binaural, CIC 
E1 
BETOS: O1F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5259 Hearing aid, digital, binaural, ITC 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5260 Hearing aid, digital, binaural, ITE 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
V5251-V5269 
D V5261 Hearing aid, digital, binaural, BTE 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5262 Hearing aid, disposable, any type, 
monaural 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5263 Hearing aid, disposable, any type, 
binaural 
E1 
BETOS: O1F Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5264 Ear mold/insert, not disposable, any type E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5265 Ear mold/insert, disposable, any type 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5266 Battery for use in hearing device 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, 01 
D V5267 Hearing aid or assistive listening device/ 
supplies/accessories, not otherwise 
specified 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
ASSISTIVE HEARING DEVICES (V5268-V5290) 
D V5268 Assistive listening device, telephone 
amplifier, any type 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
D V5269 Assistive listening device, alerting, 
any type 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
d" Male only 
. Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
Eml Paid under the DME fee schedule 
A-Y = APC Status i ndicator 
l,llliJ MIPScode 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
475 
V5270 -V5362 
Hearing Services (VSOO8-V5364) 
476 
El V5270 Assistive listening device, television 
amplifier, any type 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5271 Assistive listening device, television caption 
decoder 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5272 Assistive listening device, TDD 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5273 Assistive listening device, for use with 
cochlear implant 
E1 
BETOS: 01F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5274 Assistive listening device, not otherwise 
specified 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5275 Ear impression, each 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
Coding Clinic: 2002, Q1 
El V5281 Assistive listening device, personal FM/OM 
system, monaural, (1 receiver, transmitter. 
microphone), any type 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a7 
El V5282 Assistive listening device, personal FM/OM 
system, binaural, (2 receivers, transmitter, 
microphone), any type 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a7 
El V5283 Assistive listening device, personal FM/OM 
neck, loop induction receiver 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a7 
El V5284 Assistive listening device, personal FM/OM, 
ear level receiver 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a7 
El V5285 Assistive listening device, personal FM/OM, 
direct audio input receiver 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a7 
El V5286 Assistive listening device, personal blue 
tooth FM/OM receiver 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a 7 
El V5287 Assistive listening device, personal FM/OM 
receiver, not otherwise specified 
E1 
BETOS: 01F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a7 
El V5288 Assistive listening device, personal FM/OM 
transmitter assistive listening device 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a7 
El V5289 Assistive listening device, personal FM/OM 
adapter/boot coupling device for receiver, 
any type 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a 7 
El V5290 Assistive listening device, transmitter 
microphone, any type 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862a7 
OTHER AND MISCELLANEOUS HEARING SERVICES AND 
SUPPLIES (V5298, V5299) 
El V5298 Hearing aid, not otherwise classified 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
l!J V5299 Hearing service, miscellaneous 
B 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Price established by carriers 
SPEECH-RELATED SCREENINGS AND COMMUNICATION 
DEVICE REPAIR (V5336•V5364) 
El V5336 Repair/modification of augmentative 
communicative system or device 
(excludes adaptive hearing aid) 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862A7 
El V5362 Speech screening 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(7) 
• New code
• Revised code
ml Carrier judgment 
fil Special coverage instructions apply 
0 Not payable by Medicare 
li!iJ Non-covered by Medicare 
E Non-covered by Medicare statute 
AHA Coding Clinic• 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Hearing Services (V5008-V5364) 
El V5363 Language screening 
E1 
BETOS: 01 F 
Hearing and speech services 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(7) 
EJ V5364 Dysphagia screening 
E1 
Service not separately priced by Part B 
Statute: 1862(a)(7) 
fl' Male only 
!?- Female only 
0 Age 
ASC = ASC Approved Procedure 
A2 - 23 = ASC Payment indicator 
Elli Paid under the DME fee schedule 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
A -Y = APC Status Indicator 
liill] MIPScode 
VS363 - VS364 
477 
NOTES 
Appendix A 
Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Generic and brand-name drugs found throughout the Table of Drugs and Biologicals are a representative sample of drugs and biologicals commonly associated with 
HCPCS Level II codes. Please check the CMS and FDA websites for the most up-to-date information on coverage, active brand names, and validity of drugs. 
Caution: Never code directly from the Table of Drugs and Biologicals. Always cross-reference the code to the Tabular List before final code assignment. Questions 
regarding coding and billing guidance should be submitted to the insurer in whose jurisdiction a claim would be filed. For private sector health insurance systems, 
please contact the individual private insurance entity. For Medicaid systems, please contact the Medicaid agency in the state in which the claim is being filed. For 
Medicare, contact the Medicare contractor. 
Abbreviations used in the Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
IA - Intra-arterial administration 
IT - lntrathecal 
IV - Intravenous administration 
IM - Intramuscular administration 
SC - Subcutaneous administration 
!NH - Administration by inhaled solution 
VAR - Various routes of administration 
0TH - Other routes of administration 
ORAL - Administered orally 
Intravenous administration includes all methods, such as gravity infusion, injections, and timed pushes into blood vessels, usually veins. IM refers to injections into 
muscles; IT to injections into the spinal column; and SC to injections into tissues (not muscle) under the skin. VAR denotes various routes of administration and is 
used for drugs that are commonly administered into joints, cavities, tissues, or topical applications, in addition to other parenteral administrations. 0TH indicates other 
administration methods, such as intraocular injections, suppositories, or catheter injections. 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
ABATACEPT 
10mg 
IV 
J0129 
ADSTILADRIN® 
per therapeutic 
0TH 
J9029 
ABCIXIMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J0130 
dose 
ABELCEr@I 
10 mg 
IV 
J0287 
ADUCANUMAB-AVWA 
2mg 
IV 
J0172 
ABILIFY ASIMTUFII® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0402 
ADUHELM® 
2 mg 
IV 
J0172 
ABILIFY MAINTENA® 
1 mg 
IM 
J0401 
ADVATE® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7192 
ABOBOTULINUM TOXIN A 
5 IU 
IM 
J0586 
ADYNOVATE® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7207 
ABRAXANE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9264 
AFAMELANOTIDE IMPLANT 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7352 
ACETADOTE® 
100 mg 
IV 
J0132 
AFLIBERCEPT 
1 mg 
0TH 
J0178 
ACETAMINOPHEN (MADE BY B. 
10 mg 
IV 
J0136 
AFSTYLA® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7210 
BRAUN) 
AGALSIDASE BETA 
1 mg 
IV 
J0180 
ACETAMINOPHEN (MADE BY 
10 mg 
IV 
J0134 
AGGRASTAU 
0.25 mg 
IV,IM 
J3246 
FRESENIUS KABI) 
AJOVY® 
1 mg 
SC 
J3031 
ACETAMINOPHEN (MADE BY 
10 mg 
IV 
J0137 
HIKMA) 
ACETAMINOPHEN, NOS 
10mg 
IV 
J0131 
AKYNZEO® 
0.25 mg 
IV 
J1454 
AKYNZEO® 
300 mg 
ORAL 
J8655 
ACETAZOLAMIDE SODIUM 
up to 500 mg 
IV,IM 
J1120 
ALATROFLOXACIN MESYLATE 
100mg 
IV 
J0200 
ACETYLCYSTEINE 
100mg 
IV 
J0132 
ACETYLCYSTEINE, UNIT DOSE, 
1 gram 
INH 
J7604 
COMPOUNDED 
ACETYLCYSTEINE, UNIT DOSE, 
1 gram 
INH 
J7608 
NON-COMPOUNDED 
ACTEMRA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J3262 
ACTHAR GEL® 
up to 40 IU 
IM,SC 
J0801 
ALBUTEROL AND IPRATROPIUM 
up to 2.5 mg/ 
INH 
J7620 
BROMIDE, NON-COMPOUNDED 
up to 0.5 mg 
ALBUTEROL,CONCENTRATED 
1 mg 
INH 
J7610 
FORM, COMPOUNDED 
ALBUTEROL,CONCENTRATED 
1 mg 
INH 
J7611 
FORM, NON-COMPOUNDED 
ALBUTEROL, UNIT DOSE, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7609 
COMPOUNDED 
ACTHREL® 
1 mcg 
IV, IM 
J0795 
ALBUTEROL, UNIT DOSE, NON-
1 mg 
INH 
J7613 
ACTIMMUNE® 
3 million IU 
SC 
J9216 
COMPOUNDED 
ACTIVASE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2997 
ALDESLEUKIN 
single use vial 
IV 
J9015 
ACYCLOVIR 
5mg 
IV 
J0133 
ALDURAZYMV 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J1931 
ADAKVEO® 
5 mg 
IV 
J0791 
ALEFACEPT 
0.5 mg 
IV,IM 
J0215 
ADALIMUMAB 
20mg 
SC 
J0135 
ALEMTUZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J0202 
ADASUVE® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J2062 
ALFENTANIL HYDROCHLORIDE 
500 mcg 
IV 
J0216 
ADCETRIS® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9042 
ALGLUCERASE 
101U 
IV 
J0205 
ADENOSINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J0153 
ALGLUCOSIDASE ALFA 
10mg 
IV 
J0220 
ADO-TRASTUZUMAB EMTANSINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9354 
ALGLUCOSIDASE ALFA 
10mg 
IV 
J0221 
ADRENALIN, EPINEPHRINE 
0.1 mg 
IM,SC 
J0171 
(LUMIZYMW 
479 
ALIQOPA® -ASPARAGINASE 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
ALIQOPA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9057 
ALLOPURINOL SODIUM 
1 mg 
IV 
J0206 
ALPHA 1-PROTEINASE INHIBITOR, 
10 mg 
IV 
J0256 
HUMAN 
ANTIEMETIC DRUG, NOT 
ORAL 
J8597 
OTHERWISE SPECIFIED 
ANTIEMETIC DRUG, RECTAU 
0TH 
J8498 
SUPPOSITORY, NOT OTHERWISE 
SPECIFIED 
ALPHA 1-PROTEINASE INHIBITOR, 
10 mg 
IV 
J0257 
HUMAN (GLASSIA®) 
ANTIHEMOPHILIC FACTOR VIII/ 
1 IU 
IV 
J7186 
VON WILLEBRAND FACTOR 
ALPHANATE® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7186 
COMPLEX (HUMAN) 
ALPHANINE® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7193 
ANTI-INHIBITOR COAGULANT 
1 IU 
IV 
J7198 
ALPROLIX® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7201 
COMPLEX 
ALPROSTADIL, INJECTION 
1.25 mcg 
0TH 
J0270 
ANTI-NEOPLASTIC DRUGS, NOT 
J9999 
OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED 
ALPROSTADIL, URETHRAL 
each 
0TH 
J0275 
SUPPOSITORY 
ANTITHROMBIN Ill (HUMAN) 
1 IU 
IV 
J7197 
ALTEPLASE RECOMBINANT 
1 mg 
IV 
J2997 
ALTUVIIIO™ 
1 IU 
IV 
J7214 
ANTITHROMBIN RECOMBINANT 
50IU 
IV 
J7196 
APOMORPHINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
1 mg 
SC 
J0364 
AMBISOME® 
10 mg 
IV 
J0289 
AMELUZ® 
10 mg 
0TH 
J7345 
AMEVIVE® 
0.5 mg 
IV, IM 
J0215 
AMIFOSTINE 
500 mg 
IV 
J0207 
AMIKACIN SULFATE 
100 mg 
IV 
J0278 
AMINOLEVULINIC ACID HCL, 10% 
10mg 
0TH 
J7345 
GEL, TOPICAL 
APREPITANT 
1 mg 
IV 
J0185 
APREPITANT 
5 mg 
ORAL 
J8501 
APROTININ 
10,000 kiu 
IV 
J0365 
ARALAST NP® 
10 mg 
IV 
J0256 
ARANESP® (FOR ESRD) 
1 mcg 
IV, SC 
J0882 
ARANESP® (NON-ESRD) 
1 mcg 
IV, SC 
J0881 
ARBUTAMINE HCL 
1 mg 
IV 
J0395 
AMINOLEVULINIC ACID HCL, 
unit dose 
0TH 
J7308 
ARCALYST® 
1 mg 
SC 
J2793 
TOPICAL, 20% 
(354 mg) 
ARFORMOTEROL 
15 mcg 
INH 
J7605 
AMINOPHYLLINE 
up to 250 mg 
IV 
J0280 
ARGATROBAN (FOR ESRD) 
1 mg 
IV 
J0884 
AMIODARONE HCL 
30mg 
IV 
J0282 
ARGATROBAN (MADE BY 
1 mg 
IV 
J0892 
AMIODARONE HCL, 
30 mg 
IV 
J0283 
ACCORD), (FOR ESRD) 
(NEXTERONE®) 
ARGATROBAN (MADE BY 
1 mg 
IV 
J0891 
AMISULPRIDE 
1 mg 
IV 
J0184 
ACCORD), (NON-ESRD) 
AMITRIPTYLINE HCL 
up to 20 mg 
IM 
J1320 
AMIVANTAMAB-VMJW 
2mg 
IV 
J9061 
AMOBARBITAL 
up to 125 mg 
IV,IM 
J0300 
ARGATROBAN (MADE BY 
1 mg 
IV 
J0899 
AUROMEDICS), (FOR ESRD) 
ARGATROBAN (MADE BY 
1 mg 
IV 
J0898 
AUROMEDICS), (NON-ESRD) 
AMONDYS 45® 
10 mg 
IV 
J1426 
ARGATROBAN (NON-ESRD USE) 
1 mg 
IV 
J0883 
AMPHOTERICIN B 
50 mg 
IV 
J0285 
ARIPIPRAZOLE 
0.25 mg 
IM 
J0400 
AMPHOTERICIN B CHOLESTERYL 
10 mg 
IV 
J0288 
SULFATE COMPLEX 
ARIPIPRAZOLE (ABILIFY 
1 mg 
IV 
J0402 
ASIMTUFII®) 
AMPHOTERICIN B LIPOSOME 
10 mg 
IV 
J0289 
ARIPIPRAZOLE LAUROXIL 
1 mg 
IM 
J1944 
AMPHOTERICIN B, LIPID 
10 mg 
IV 
J0287 
COMPLEX 
ARIPIPRAZOLE LAUROXIL 
1 mg 
IM 
J1943 
(ARISTADA INITIO®) 
AMPICILLIN SODIUM 
500 mg 
IV, IM 
J0290 
ARIPIPRAZOLE, EXTENDED 
1 mg 
IM 
J0401 
AMPICILLIN SODIUM/SULBACTAM 
1.5 g 
IV, IM 
J0295 
RELEASE 
SODIUM 
ARISTADA INITIO® 
1 mg 
IM 
J1943 
ANACAULASE-BCDB, 8.8% GEL 
1 gram 
0TH 
J7353 
ARISTADA® 
1 mg 
IM 
J1944 
ANASCORP® 
up to 120 mg 
IV 
J0716 
ARISTOSPAN® 
5mg 
IV 
J3303 
ANAVIP® 
120 mg 
IV 
J0841 
ARIXTRA® 
0.5 mg 
SC 
J1652 
ANDEXXA® 
10 mg 
IV 
J7169 
ARRANON® 
50 mg 
IV 
J9261 
ANGIOMAX® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0583 
ARSENIC TRIOXIDE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9017 
ANIDULAFUNGIN 
1 mg 
IV 
J0348 
ARTESUNATE 
1 mg 
IV 
J0391 
ANIFROLUMAB-FNIA 
1 mg 
IV 
J0491 
ARZERRA® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9302 
ANISTREPLASE 
30 IU 
IV 
J0350 
ASCENIV™ 
500mg 
IV 
J1554 
ANJESO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1738 
ASPARAGINASE 
1,000 IU 
IV,IM 
J9019 
480 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
ASPARAGINASE - BONSITY® 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
ASPARAGINASE, NOS 
10,000 IU 
IV,IM 
J9020 
BENDAMUSTINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9036 
ASPARAGINASE, RECOMBINANT, 
0.1 mg 
IM 
J9021 
HYDROCHLORIDE (BELRAPZO®) 
(RYLAZE™) 
BENDAMUSTINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9058 
AS PAR LAS® 
10 units 
IV 
J9118 
HYDROCHLORIDE (MADE BY 
ASTAGRAF XL® 
0.1 mg 
ORAL 
J7508 
ATEZOLIZUMAB 
10mg 
IV 
J9022 
ATGAM® 
250 mg 
IV 
J7504 
APOTEX) 
BENDAMUSTINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9059 
HYDROCHLORIDE (MADE BY 
BAXTER) 
ATIVAN® 
2mg 
IV, IM 
J2060 
BENDAMUSTINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9056 
ATROPINE SULFATE 
0.01 mg 
IV 
J0461 
HYDROCHLORIDE (VIVIMUSTA®) 
ATROPINE, CONCENTRATED 
1 mg 
INH 
J7635 
BENDEKA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9034 
FORM,COMPOUNDED 
BENEFIX® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7195 
ATROPINE, UNIT DOSE FORM, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7636 
BENLYSTA® 
10 mg 
IV 
J0490 
COMPOUNDED 
ATRYN® 
50 IU 
IV 
J7196 
BENRALIZUMAB 
1 mg 
SC 
J0517 
BENTYL® 
up to 20 mg 
IM 
J0500 
AUROTHIOGLUCOSE 
up to 50 mg 
IM 
J2910 
BENZTROPINE MESYLATE 
1 mg 
IV, IM 
J0515 
AUTOLOGOUS CULTURED 
each 
0TH 
J7330 
CHONDROCYTES, IMPLANT 
BEOVU® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J0179 
AVALGLUCOSIDASE ALFA-NG PT 
4 mg 
IV 
J0219 
BEREMAGENE GEPERPAVEC-
5 X 10'9 pfu/ 
Topical 
J3401 
SVDT 
ml vector 
AVASTIN® 
10mg 
IV 
J9035 
AVEED® 
1 mg 
IM 
J3145 
AVELUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J9023 
AVONEX® 
30 mcg 
IM 
J1826 
AVYCAZ® 
0.5 g/0.125 g 
IV 
J0714 
genomes, per 
0.1 ml 
BERINERT® 
101U 
IV 
J0597 
BESPONSA® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9229 
BETAMETHASONE ACETATE 
3 rng/3 mg 
IM 
J0702 
AND BETAMETHASONE SODIUM 
AZACITIDINE 
1 mg 
IV,SC 
J9025 
PHOSPHATE 
AZASAN® 
50 mg 
ORAL 
J7500 
BETAMETHASONE, UNIT DOSE 
1 mg 
INH 
J7624 
AZATHIOPRINE, ORAL 
50 mg 
ORAL 
J7500 
FORM,COMPOUNDED 
AZATHIOPRINE, PARENTERAL 
100 mg 
IV 
J7501 
BETASERON® 
0.25 mg 
SC 
J1830 
AZITHROMYCIN 
500 mg 
IV 
J0456 
BETHANECHOL CHLORIDE 
up to 5 mg 
SC 
J0520 
AZTREONAM 
100 mg 
IV 
J0457 
BETHKIS® 
300 mg 
INH 
J7682 
BACLOFEN 
10mg 
IT 
J0475 
BEVACIZUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J9035 
BACLOFEN FOR INTRATHECAL 
50 mcg 
IT 
J0476 
BEZLOTOXUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J0565 
TRIAL 
BICILLIN C-R® 
100,000 IU 
IM 
J0558 
BACTOCILL® 
up to 250 mg 
IV,IM 
J2700 
BICILLIN L-A® 
100,000 IU 
IM 
J0561 
BAL® 
100 mg 
IM 
J0470 
BICNU® 
100 mg 
IV 
J9050 
BASILIXIMAB 
20 mg 
IV 
J0480 
BIMATOPROST, INTRACAMERAL 
1 IU 
0TH 
J7351 
BAVENCIO® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9023 
IMPLANT 
BCG LIVE INTRAVESICAL 
1 mg 
0TH 
J9030 
BIORPHEN® 
20 mcg 
IV 
J2372 
INSTILLATION 
BIPERIDEN LACTATE 
5 mg 
IV 
J0190 
BECLOMETHASONE, UNIT DOSE 
1 mg 
INH 
J7622 
BITOLTEROL MESYLATE, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7628 
FORM,COMPOUNDED 
CONCENTRATED FORM, 
BELANTAMAB MAFODOTIN-BLMF 
0.5mg 
IV 
J9037 
COMPOUNDED 
BELATACEPT 
1 mg 
IV 
J0485 
BELEODAQ® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9032 
BELIMUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J0490 
BELINOSTAT 
10mg 
IV 
J9032 
BELRAPZO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9036 
BITOLTEROL MESYLATE, UNIT 
1 mg 
INH 
J7629 
DOSE FORM,COMPOUNDED 
BIVALIRUDIN 
1 mg 
IV 
J0583 
BIVIGAM® 
500 mg 
IV 
J1556 
BLENREP® 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J9037 
BLEOMYCIN SULFATE 
151U 
IV, IM,SC 
J9040 
BENDAMUSTINE HCL, 
1 mg 
IV 
J9034 
(BENDEKA®) 
BLINATUMOMAB 
1 mcg 
IV 
J9039 
BENDAMUSTINE HCL, 
1 mg 
IV 
J9033 
BLINCYTO® 
1 mcg 
IV 
J9039 
(TREANDA®) 
BONSITY® 
10 mcg 
SC 
J3110 
481 
BORTEZOMIB - CEFAZOLIN SODIUM (MADE BY HIKMA) 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
BORTEZOMIB 
0.1 mg 
\V,SC 
J9041 
C-1 ESTERACE INHIBITOR, 
10IU 
SC 
J0599 
BORTEZOMIB (MADE BY DR. 
0.1 mg 
IV, SC 
J9046 
REDDY'S) 
BORTEZOMIB (MADE BY 
0.1 mg 
\V,SC 
J9048 
FRESENIUS KABI) 
BORTEZOMIB (MADE BY 
0.1 mg 
\V,SC 
J9049 
HOSPIRA} 
SUBCUTANEOUS, HUMAN,
(HAEGARDA®) 
CABAZITAXEL 
1 mg 
IV 
J9043 
CABAZITAXEL (MADE BY 
1 mg 
IV 
J9064 
SANDOZ) 
CABERGOL\NE 
0.25 mg 
ORAL 
J8515 
BORTEZOMIB (MADE BY MAIA} 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9051 
CABNUVA® 
2 mg/3 mg 
IV 
J0741 
BOTOX COSMETIC® 
1 IU 
IM 
J0585 
CABOTEGRAVIR 
1 mg 
IM 
J0739 
BOTOX® 
1 JU 
IM 
J0585 
CABOTEGRAVIR AND RILPIVIRINE 
2 mg/3mg 
IV 
J0741 
BRENTUXIMAB VEDOTIN 
1 mg 
IV 
J9042 
CAFFEINE CITRATE 
5 mg 
IV 
J0706 
BREXANOLONE 
1 mg 
IV 
J1632 
CALASPARGASE-PEGOL-MKNL 
10 units 
IV 
J9118 
BRINEURA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0567 
CALCITONIN-SALMON 
up to 400 JU 
IM, SC 
J0630 
BRIUMVI® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2329 
CALCITRIOL 
0.1 mcg 
IM 
J0636 
BRIXADI® 
1 mg 
SC 
J0576 
BROLUCIZUMAB·DBLL 
1 mg 
0TH 
J0179 
CALCIUM CHLORIDE; DEXTROSE; 
1 ml 
IT 
J9175 
MAGNESIUM SULFATE; 
POTASSIUM CHLORIDE; SODIUM 
BROMPHENIRAMINE MALEATE 
10mg 
\V,\M,SC 
J0945 
BICARBONATE; SODIUM 
BUDESONIDE INHALATION 
0.5 mg 
INH 
J7627 
SOLUTION, COMPOUNDED 
BUDESONIDE INHALATION 
0.25 mg 
INH 
J7634 
SOLUTION, COMPOUNDED 
CHLORIDE; SODIUM PHOSPHATE, 
DIBASIC, HEPTAHYDRATE 
CALCIUM DISODIUM VERSENATE® 
up to 1000 mg 
IV,IM 
J0600 
CALCIUM GLUCONATE (MADE BY 
10 mg 
IV 
J0612 
BUDESONIDE INHALATION 
0.5mg 
!NH 
J7626 
SOLUTION, NON-COMPOUNDED 
FRESENIUS KABI) 
CALCIUM GLUCONATE (MADE BY 
10 mg 
IV 
J0613 
BUDESONIDE INHALATION 
0.25 mg 
\NH 
J7633 
SOLUTION, NON-COMPOUNDED 
BUMETANIDE 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J1939 
BUPIVICAINE, NOT OTHERWISE 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J0665 
SPECIFIED 
WG CRITICAL CARE) 
CALCIUM GLYCEROPHOSPHATE 
10 ml 
IM,SC 
J0620 
AND CALCIUM LACTATE 
CAMCEVI® 
1 mg 
SC 
J1952 
CAM PTO SAR® 
20 mg 
IV 
J9206 
BU PREN EX® 
0.1 mg 
IM 
J0592 
CANAKINUMAB 
1 mg 
SC 
J0638 
BUPRENORPHINE 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J0571 
CANCIDAS® 
5 mg 
IV 
J0637 
BUPRENORPHINE EXTENDED· 
1 mg 
SC 
J0576 
CAPECITABINE 
150mg 
ORAL 
J8520 
RELEASE (BRIXADI®) 
CAPECITABINE 
500 mg 
ORAL 
J8521 
BUPRENORPHINE 
0.1 mg 
IM 
J0592 
CAPSAICIN 8% PATCH 
per sq cm 
0TH 
J7336 
HYDROCHLORIDE 
CARBIDOPA/LEVODOPA, 
100 ml 
0TH 
J7340 
BUPRENORPHINE IMPLANT 
74.2 mg 
0TH 
J0570 
ENTERAL SUSPENSION 
BUPRENORPHINE/NALOXONE 
<=3 mg 
ORAL 
J0572 
CARBOPLATIN 
50 mg 
IV 
J9045 
BUPRENORPHINE/NALOXONE 
>3 mg but <=6
ORAL 
J0573 
CARFILZOMIB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9047 
mg 
CARIMUNE® NF 
500 mg 
IV 
J1566 
BUPRENORPHINE/NALOXONE 
>6 mg but
ORAL 
J0574 
<=10 mg
CARMUSTINE 
100 mg 
IV 
J9050 
BUPRENORPHINE/NALOXONE 
>10 mg 
ORAL 
J0575 
CARMUSTINE (MADE BY ACCORD) 
100 mg 
IV 
J9052 
BUROSUMAB-TWZA 
1 mg 
SC 
J0584 
CARNITOR® 
1 g 
IV 
J1955 
BUSULFAN 
1 mg 
IV 
J0594 
CASIMERSEN 
10 mg 
IV 
J1426 
BUSULFAN 
2mg 
ORAL 
J8510 
CASPOFUNGIN ACETATE 
5mg 
IV 
J0637 
BUTORPHANOL TARTRATE 
1 mg 
IM 
J0595 
CATHFLO ACTIVASE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2997 
C-1 ESTERACE INHIBITOR, 
10\U 
IV 
J0597 
CAVERJECT® 
1.25 mcg 
0TH 
J0270 
HUMAN, (BERINERT®)
CEFAZOLIN SODIUM 
500 mg 
IV,IM 
J0690 
C-1 ESTERACE INHIBITOR, 
10IU 
IV 
J0598 
CEFAZOLIN SODIUM (MADE BY 
500 mg 
IV 
J0689 
HUMAN, (CINRYZE®) 
BAXTER) 
C-1 ESTERACE INHIBITOR,
10IU 
IV 
J0596 
CEFAZOLIN SODIUM (MADE BY 
500 mg 
IV 
J0688 
RECOMBINANT, (RUCONEST®) 
HIKMA) 
482 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
CEFEPIME HCL (MADE BY B. BRAUN) - CROMOLYN SODIUM 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
CEFEPIME HCL (MADE BY B. 
500 mg 
IV 
J0703 
BRAUN) 
CEFEPIME HCL (MADE BY 
500 mg 
IV 
J0701 
BAXTER) 
CINRYZE® 
10IU 
IV 
J0598 
CINVANTI® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0185 
CIPROFLOXACIN 
200 mg 
IV 
J0744 
CEFEPIME HYDROCHLORIDE 
500mg 
IV 
J0692 
CEFIDEROCOL 
10 mg 
IV 
J0699 
CEFOTAXIME SODIUM 
1 g 
IV, IM 
J0698 
CIPROFLOXACIN, OTIC 
6mg 
0TH 
J7342 
SUSPENSION 
CISPLATIN, POWDER OR 
10 mg 
IV 
J9060 
SOLUTION 
CEFOXITIN SODIUM 
1 g 
IV, IM 
J0694 
CEFTAROLINE FOSAMIL 
10 mg 
IV 
J0712 
CEFTAZIDIME 
500 mg 
IV, IM 
J0713 
CLADRIBINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9065 
CLINDAMYCIN PHOSPHATE 
300 mg 
IV,IM 
J0736 
CLINDAMYCIN PHOSPHATE 
300mg 
IV, IM 
J0737 
CEFTAZIDIME AND AVIBACTAM 
0.5 g/0.125 g 
IV 
J0714 
(MADE BY BAXTER) 
CEFTIZOXIME SODIUM 
500mg 
IV,IM 
J0715 
CLOFARABINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9027 
CEFTOLOZANE AND 
50 mg/25 mg 
IV 
J0695 
TAZOBACTAM 
CEFTRIAXONE 
250 mg 
IV,IM 
J0696 
CEFUROXIME SODIUM, STERILE 
750 mg 
IV,IM 
J0697 
CELESTONE SOLUSPAN® 
3 mg/3 mg 
IM 
J0702 
CELLCEPT® 
250 mg 
ORAL 
J7517 
CLOLAR® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9027 
CLONIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
1 mg 
0TH 
J0735 
CLOROTEKAL ® 
1 mg 
VAR 
J2402 
COAGADEX® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7175 
COAGULATION FACTOR IX 
. 1 IU 
IV 
J7213 
(RECOMBINANT), IXINITY® 
CEMIPLIMAB-RWLC 
1 mg 
IV 
J9119 
COAGULATION FACTOR XA 
10 mg 
IV 
J7169 
CENTRUROIDES IMMUNE F(AB)2 
up to 120 mg 
IV 
J0716 
(RECOMBINANT), INACTIVATED-
CEPHALOTHIN SODIUM 
up to 1 g 
IV,IM 
J1890 
ZHZO (ANDEXXA®) 
CEPHAPIRIN SODIUM 
up to 1 g 
IV, IM 
J0710 
CODEINE PHOSPHATE 
30mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J0745 
CEPROTIN® 
10IU 
IV 
J2724 
COLISTIMETHATE SODIUM 
up to 150 mg 
IV,IM 
J0770 
CEREZYME® 
10IU 
IV 
J1786 
COLLAGENASE CLOSTRIDIUM 
0.01 mg 
0TH 
J0775 
HISTOLYTICUM 
CERLIPONASE ALFA 
1 mg 
IV 
J0567 
CERTOLIZUMAB PEGOL 
1 mg 
SC 
J0717 
CESAMET® 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J8650 
CETIRIZINE 
0.5mg 
IV 
J1201 
COLUMVI® 
2.5 mg 
IV 
J9286 
COLY-MYCIN M® 
up to 150 mg 
IV,IM 
J0770 
COMPOUNDED DRUG, NOT 
VAR 
J7999 
OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED 
CETUXIMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J9055 
CONTRACEPTIVE SUPPLY, 
each 
0TH 
J7304 
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC, NOT 
ORAL 
J8999 
HORMONE CONTAINING PATCH 
OTHERWISE SPECIFIED 
COPANLISIB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9057 
CHIRHOSTIM® 
1mcg 
IV 
J2850 
COPAXONE® 
20 mg 
SC 
J1595 
CHLORAMPHENICOL SODIUM 
up to 1 g 
IV 
J0720 
SUCCINATE 
COPPER CONTRACEPTIVE, 
each 
0TH 
J7300 
INTRAUTERINE 
CHLORDIAZEPOXIDE 
up to 100 mg 
IV, IM 
J1990 
CORIFACT® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7180 
CHLOROPROCAINE HCL 
1 mg 
VAR 
J2401 
CHLOROPROCAINE HCL 
1 mg 
VAR 
J2402 
CORTICORELIN OVINE 
1 mcg 
IV, IM 
J0795 
TRIFLUTATE 
(CLOROTEKAL ®) 
CHLOROPROCAINE HCL 
1 mg 
0TH 
J2403 
OPHTHALMIC, 3% GEL 
CORTICOTROPIN (ACTHAR GEL®) 
up to 40 IU 
IM,SC 
J0801 
CORTICOTROPIN (MADE BY ANI) 
up to 40 IU 
IM,SC 
J0802 
CHLOROQUINE HCL 
up to 250 mg 
IM 
J0390 
CORTROSYN® 
0.25 mg 
IV 
J0834 
CHLOROTHIAZIDE SODIUM 
500 mg 
IV 
J1205 
CORVERT® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1742 
CHLORPROMAZINE HCL 
up to 50 mg 
IV,IM 
J3230 
COSELA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1448 
CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN 
1,000 IU 
IM 
J0725 
COSMEGEN® 
0.5mg 
IV 
J9120 
CIDOFOVIR 
375 mg 
IV 
J0740 
COSYNTROPIN 
0.25 mg 
IV 
J0834 
CILASTATIN SODIUM, IMIPENEM 
250 mg 
IV,IM 
J0743 
CRESEMBA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1833 
CIMZIA® 
1 mg 
SC 
J0717 
CRIZANLIZUMAB-TMCA 
5 mg 
IV 
J0791 
CINACALCET, ORAL, (FOR ESRD 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J0604 
CROFAB® 
up to 1 gram 
IV 
J0840 
ON DIALYSIS) 
CROMOLYN SODIUM, 
10 mg 
INH 
J7632 
CINQAIR® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2786 
COMPOUNDED 
483 
CROMOLYN SODIUM - DEXTROSE/WATER (5%) 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
CROMOLYN SODIUM, NON-
10 mg 
INH 
J7631 
DARZALEX® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9145 
COMPOUNDED 
DAUNORUBICIN 
10 mg 
IV 
J9150 
CROTALIDAE IMMUNE F(AB')2 
120mg 
IV 
J0841 
DAUNORUBICIN AND 
1 mg/2.27 mg 
IV 
J9153 
(EQUINE) 
CYTARABINE, LIPOSOMAL 
CROTALIDAE POLYVALENT 
up to 1 gram 
IV 
J0840 
DAUNORUBICIN CITRATE, 
10 mg 
IV 
J9151 
IMMUNE FAB (OVINE) 
LIPOSOMAL FORMULATION 
CRYSVITA® 
1 mg 
SC 
J0584 
DDAVP® 
1 mcg 
IV,SC 
J2597 
CUBICIN® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0878 
DECITABINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J0894 
CUTAQUIG® 
100 mg 
SC 
J1551 
DECITABINE (MADE BY SUN 
1 mg 
IV 
J0893 
CUVITRU® 
100mg 
SC 
J1555 
PHARMA) 
CYANOCOBALAMIN, VITAMIN B-12 
up to 1,000 
IM,SC 
J3420 
DEFEROXAMINE MESYLATE 
500 mg 
IV,IM,SC 
J0895 
mcg 
DEGARELIX 
1 mg 
SC 
J9155 
CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE 
25mg 
ORAL 
J8530 
DELANDISTROGENE 
per therapeutic 
IV 
J1413 
CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE 
100 mg 
IV 
J9070 
MOXEPARVOVEC-ROKL 
dose 
CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE (MADE BY 
5 mg 
IV 
J9071 
AUROMEDICS) 
DELESTROGEN® 
upto 10mg 
IM 
J1380 
DEMEROL® 
100 mg 
IV, IM, SC 
J2175 
CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE (MADE BY 
5mg 
IV 
J9072 
DENOSUMAB 
1 mg 
SC 
J0897 
DR. REDDY'S) 
DEOXYCHOLIC ACID 
1 mg 
SC 
J0591 
CYCLOSPORINE, ORAL 
100 mg 
ORAL 
J7502 
DEPO ESTRADIOL ® 
up to 5 mg 
IM 
J1000 
CYCLOSPORINE, ORAL 
25 mg 
ORAL 
J7515 
DEPO-ESTRADIOL CYPIONATE 
up to 5 mg 
IM 
J1000 
CYCLOSPORINE, PARENTERAL 
250 mg 
IV 
J7516 
DEPO-MEDROL® 
20 mg 
IM 
J1020 
CYRAMZA® 
5mg 
IV 
J9308 
DEPO-MEDROL ® 
40 mg 
IM 
J1030 
CYTARABINE 
100 mg 
IV, SC 
J9100 
DEPO-MEDROL ® 
80 mg 
IM 
J1040 
CYTARABINE LIPOSOME 
10mg 
IT 
J9098 
DEPO-PROVERA® 
1 mg 
IM 
J1050 
CYTOGAM® 
vial 
IV 
J0850 
DEPO-TESTOSTERONE® 
1 mg 
IM 
J1071 
CYTOMEGALOVIRUS IMMUNE 
vial 
IV 
J0850 
DESFERAL® 
500 mg 
IV, IM, SC 
J0895 
GLOBULIN INTRAVENOUS 
(HUMAN) 
D.H.E. 45® 
1 mg 
IV,IM 
J1110 
D5W 
1000 cc 
IV 
J7070 
DESMOPRESSIN ACETATE 
1 mcg 
IV, SC 
J2597 
DEXAMETHASONE 
0.25 mg 
ORAL 
J8540 
DEXAMETHASONE 9 PERCENT, 
1mcg 
0TH 
J1095 
INTRAOCULAR 
DACARBAZINE 
100 mg 
IV 
J9130 
DEXAMETHASONE ACETATE 
1 mg 
IM 
J1094 
DACLIZUMAB 
25mg 
IV 
J7513 
DEXAMETHASONE SODIUM 
1 mg 
IV,IM 
J1100 
DACOGEN® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0894 
PHOSPHATE 
DACTINOMYCIN 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J9120 
DALBAVANCIN 
5mg 
IV 
J0875 
DEXAMETHASONE, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7637 
CONCENTRATED FORM. 
COMPOUNDED 
DALTEPARIN SODIUM 
2500 IU 
SC 
J1645 
DEXAMETHASONE, 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J7312 
DALVANCE® 
5 mg 
IV 
J0875 
INTRAVITREAL IMPLANT 
DANYELZA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9348 
DEXAMETHASONE, LACRIMAL 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J1096 
DAPRODUSTAT (FOR ESRD) 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J0889 
OPHTHALMIC INSERT 
DAPTOMYCIN 
1 mg 
IV 
J0878 
DEXAMETHASONE, UNIT DOSE 
1 mg 
INH 
J7638 
FORM, COMPOUNDED 
DAPTOMYCIN (MADE BY BAXTER) 
1 mg 
IV 
J0874 
DEXMEDETOMIDINE 
1 mcg 
ORAL 
J1105 
DAPTOMYCIN (MADE BY 
1 mg 
IV 
J0877 
HOSPIRA) 
DAPTOMYCIN (MADE BY XELLIA) 
1 mg 
IV 
J0873 
DARATUMUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J9145 
DARATUMUMAB AND 
10 mg 
SC 
J9144 
HYALURONIDASE-FIHJ 
DEXRAZOXANE HYDROCHLORIDE 
250 mg 
IV 
J1190 
DEXTENZA® 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J1096 
DEXTRAN40 
500ml 
IV 
J7100 
DEXTRAN 75 
500 ml 
IV 
J7110 
DEXTROSE 5% IN LACTATED 
up to 1000 cc 
IV 
J7121 
RINGERS 
DARBEPOETIN ALFA (FOR ESRD) 
1 mcg 
IV, SC 
J0882 
DEXTROSE 5% NORMAL SALINE 
500 ml = 1 unit 
IV 
J7042 
DARBEPOETIN ALFA (NON-ESRD) 
1 mcg 
IV, SC 
J0881 
SOLUTION 
DARZALEX FASPRO® 
10 mg 
SC 
J9144 
DEXTROSE/WATER(5%) 
500 ml = 1 unit 
IV 
J7060 
484 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
DEXYCU® -EPOPROSTENOL 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
DEXYCU® 
1mcg 
0TH 
J1095 
EDETATE CALCIUM DISODIUM 
up to 1000 mg 
IV,IM 
J0600 
DIAZEPAM 
up to 5 mg 
IV,IM 
J3360 
EDETATE DISODIUM 
150 mg 
IV 
J3520 
DIAZOXIDE 
up to 300 mg 
IV 
J1730 
EFGARTIGIMOD ALFA AND 
2 mg 
SC 
J9334 
DICLOFENAC SODIUM 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J1130 
HYALURONIDASE-QVFC 
DICYCLOMINE HCL 
up to 20 mg 
IM 
J0500 
EFGARTIGIMOD ALFA-FCAB 
2mg 
IV 
J9332 
DIETHYLSTILBESTROL 
250 mg 
IV 
J9165 
EFLAPEGRASTIM-XNST 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J1449 
DIP HOSP HATE 
ELAHERE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9063 
DIFELIKEFALIN (FOR ESRD) 
0.1 microgram 
IV 
J0879 
ELAPRASE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1743 
DIGIFAB® 
vial 
IV 
J1162 
ELELYSO® 
10IU 
IV 
J3060 
DIGOXIN 
up to 0.5 mg 
IV,IM 
J1160 
ELEVIDYS® 
per therapeutic 
IV 
J1413 
DIGOXIN IMMUNE FAB (OVINE) 
vial 
IV 
J1162 
dose 
DIHYDROERGOTAMINE 
1 mg 
IV,IM 
J1110 
ELFABRIO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2508 
MESYLATE 
ELITEK® 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J2783 
DILAUDID® 
up to 4 mg 
IV, IM, SC 
J1170 
ELLENCE® 
2 mg 
IV 
J9178 
DIMENHYDRINATE 
up to 50 mg 
IV,IM 
J1240 
ELLIOTT$' B® SOLUTION 
1 ml 
IT 
J9175 
DIMERCAPROL 
100 mg 
IM 
J0470 
ELOCTATE® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7205 
DIMETHYL SULFOXIDE (DMSO), 
50 ml 
0TH 
J1212 
ELOSULFASE ALFA 
1 mg 
IV 
J1322 
50% 
ELOTUZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9176 
DINUTUXIMAB 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J1246 
ELOXATIN® 
0.5mg 
IV 
J9263 
DIPHENHYDRAMINE 
up to 50 mg 
IV, IM 
J1200 
ELZONRIS® 
10 mcg 
IV 
J9269 
DIPRIVAN® 
10mg 
IV 
J2704 
EMAPALUMAB-LZSG 
1 mg 
IV 
J9210 
DIPYRIDAMOLE 
10 mg 
IV 
J1245 
EMEND® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1453 
DIURIL® 
500 mg 
IV 
J1205 
EMEND® 
5mg 
ORAL 
J8501 
DOBUTAMINE HCL 
250 mg 
IV 
J1250 
EMICIZU MAB-KXWH 
0.5mg 
SC 
J7170 
DOCETAXEL 
1 mg 
IV 
J9171 
EMPLICITI® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9176 
DOCETAXEL (MADE BY INGENUS) 
1 mg 
IV 
J9172 
EMTRICITABINE 200MG AND 
various 
ORAL 
J0751 
DOLASETRON MESYLATE 
10 mg 
IV 
J1260 
TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE 25MG 
DOPAMINE HCL 
40 mg 
IV 
J1265 
EMTRICITABINE 200MG AND 
various 
ORAL 
J0750 
DORI PEN EM 
10mg 
IV 
J1267 
TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL 
FUMARATE 300MG 
DORNASE ALPHA, UNIT DOSE 
1 mg 
INH 
J7639 
FORM, NON-COMPOUNDED 
ENBREL® 
25 mg 
SC 
J1438 
DOSTARLIMAB-GXLY 
10 mg 
IV 
J9272 
ENFORTUMAB VEDOTIN·EJFV 
0.25 mg 
IV 
J9177 
DOXERCALCIFEROL 
1 mcg 
IV 
J1270 
DOXORUBICIN HCL 
10 mg 
IV 
J9000 
ENFUVIRTIDE 
1 mg 
SC 
J1324 
ENHERTU® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9358 
DROPERIDOL 
up to 5 mg 
IV,IM 
J1790 
DROPERIDOL AND FENTANYL 
up to 2 ml 
IV, IM 
J1810 
CITRATE 
ampule 
ENOXAPARIN SODIUM 
10 mg 
SC 
J1650 
ENTYVIO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J3380 
ENVARSUS XR® 
0.25mg 
ORAL 
J7503 
DRUG ADMINISTERED THROUGH 
per dose 
INH 
J3535 
EPCORITAMAB-BYSP 
0.16 mg 
SC 
J9321 
A METERED DOSE INHALER 
EPINEPHRINE (MADE BY 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J0173 
DUOPA® 
100ml 
0TH 
J7340 
BELCHER) 
DURACLON® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J0735 
EPIRUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE 
2mg 
IV 
J9178 
DURAMORPH® 
10 mg 
0TH 
J2274 
EPKINLY™ 
0.16 mg 
SC 
J9321 
DUROLANE® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7318 
EPOETIN ALFA (NON-ES RD) 
1000IU 
IV,SC 
J0885 
DURVALUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J9173 
EPOETIN BETA AND METHOXY 
1 mcg 
IV,SC 
J0887 
DURYSTA® 
1 IU 
0TH 
J7351 
POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL (FOR 
ESRD) 
DYPHYLLINE 
up to 500 mg 
IM 
J1180 
EPOETIN BETA AND METHOXY 
1 mcg 
IV,SC 
J0888 
DYSPORT® 
5 IU 
IM 
J0586 
POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL (NON-
ECALLANTIDE 
1 mg 
SC 
J1290 
ESRD USE) 
ECULIZUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J1300 
EPOGEN/PROCRIT® 
1000 IU 
IV,SC 
J0885 
EDARAVONE 
1 mg 
IV 
J1301 
EPOPROSTENOL 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J1325 
485 
EPTIFIBATIDE - FACTOR VIII 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
EPTIFIBATIDE 
5mg 
IV,IM 
J1327 
FACTOR IX, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7195 
EPTINEZUMAB-JJMR 
1 mg 
IV 
J3032 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), NOT 
OTHERWISE SPECIFIED 
ERAVACYCLINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J0122 
FACTOR IX, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7200 
ERAXIS® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0348 
ERBITUX® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9055 
ERGONOVINE MALEATE 
up to 0.2 mg 
IV,IM 
J1330 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
RIXUBIS® 
FACTOR IX, ALBUMIN FUSION 
1 IU 
IV 
J7202 
PROTEIN, (RECOMBINANT), 
ERIBULIN MESYLATE 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9179 
IDELVION® 
ERTAPENEM SODIUM 
500 mg 
IV, IM 
J1335 
FACTOR IX, COMPLEX 
1 IU 
IV 
J7194 
ERYTHROCIN® 
500 mg 
IV 
J1364 
ERYTHROMYCIN LACTOBIONATE 
500 mg 
IV 
J1364 
ESMOLOL HYDROCHLORIDE 
10 mg 
IV 
J1805 
FACTOR IX, FC FUSION PROTEIN, 
1 IU 
IV 
J7201 
(RECOMBINANT), ALPROLIX® 
FACTOR VIIA, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7212 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT) - JNCW 
ESMOLOL HYDROCHLORIDE 
10 mg 
IV 
J1806 
SEVEN FACT® 
(MADE BY WG CRITICAL CARE) 
FACTOR VIIA, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 mcg 
IV 
J7189 
ESPEROCT® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7204 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
ESTRADIOL VALERATE 
upto10mg 
IM 
J1380 
ESTROGENS, CONJUGATED 
25 mg 
IV, IM 
J1410 
NOVOSEVEN RT® 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7191 
FACTOR, (PORCINE)) 
ESTRONE 
1 mg 
IM 
J1435 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7190 
ETANERCEPT 
25mg 
SC 
J1438 
FACTOR, HUMAN) 
ETELCALCETIDE 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J0606 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7210 
ETEPLIRSEN 
10mg 
IV 
J1428 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
AFSTYLA® 
ETHAMOLIN® 
100 mg 
IV 
J1430 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7211 
ETHANOLAMINE OLEATE 
100 mg 
IV 
J1430 
ETHINYL ESTRADIOL AND 
each 
0TH 
J7295 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
KOVALTRY® 
ETONOGESTREL; MONTHLY 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTI-HEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7192 
VAGINAL RING 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), NOT 
ETHYOL® 
500 mg 
IV 
J0207 
ETIDRONATE DISODIUM 
300 mg 
IV 
J1436 
OTHERWISE SPECIFIED 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTI-HEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7182 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
ETONOGESTREL IMPLANT 
each 
0TH 
J7307 
NOVOEIGHT® 
ETOPOSIDE 
50 mg 
ORAL 
J8560 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7209 
ETOPOSIDE 
10 mg 
IV 
J9181 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
NUWIQ® 
ETRANACOGENE 
per therapeutic 
IV 
J1411 
DEZAPARVOVEC-DRLB 
dose 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTI-HEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7188 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
EUFLEXXA® 
dose 
0TH 
J7323 
OBIZUR® 
EVENITY® 
1 mg 
SC 
J3111 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7207 
EVEROLIMUS, ORAL 
0.25 mg 
ORAL 
J7527 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
PEGYLATED 
EVINACUMAB-DGNB 
5 mg 
IV 
J1305 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7208 
EVKEEZA® 
5 mg 
IV 
J1305 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
EVOMELA® 
50 mg 
IV 
J9246 
PEGYLATED-AUCL, (JIVI®) 
EXONDYS 51® 
10 mg 
IV 
J1428 
EXTAVIA® 
0.25 mg 
SC 
J1830 
FACTOR VIII, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7185 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
XYNTHA® 
EYLEA® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J0178 
FACTOR VIII, (VON WILLEBRAND 
1 IU 
IV 
J7214 
FABRAZYME® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0180 
FACTOR IX, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7193 
FACTOR, PURIFIED, NON-
RECOMBINANT) 
FACTOR COMPLEX, 
RECOMBINANT), ALTUVIIIO™ 
FACTOR VIII, ANITHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7204 
FACTOR (RECOMBINANT), 
(ESPEROCT), GLYCOPEGYLATED-
FACTOR IX, (ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7203 
EXEi 
FACTOR, RECOMBINANT), 
GLYCOPEGYLATED, REBINYN® 
FACTOR VIII, FC FUSION 
1 IU 
IV 
J7205 
(RECOMBINANT) 
486 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
FACTOR X- GAZYVA8 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
FACTOR X, (HUMAN) 
1 IU 
IV 
J7175 
FLUOROURACIL 
500 mg 
IV 
J9190 
FACTOR XIII, ANTIHEMOPHILIC 
1 IU 
IV 
J7180 
FLUPHENAZINE DECANOATE 
up to 25 mg 
IM 
J2680 
FACTOR (HUMAN) 
FLUPHENAZINE HCL 
1.25 mg 
IM 
J2679 
FACTOR XIII, A-SUBUNIT 
1 IU 
IV 
J7181 
(RECOMBINANT) 
FOLOTYN® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9307 
FAM-TRASTUZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9358 
FOMEPIZOLE 
15mg 
IV 
J1451 
DERUXTECAN-NXKI 
FOMIVIRSEN SODIUM, 
1.65mg 
0TH 
J1452 
FARICIMAB-SVOA 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J2777 
INTRAOCULAR 
FASENRA8 
1 mg 
SC 
J0517 
FONDAPARINUX SODIUM 
0.5mg 
SC 
J1652 
FASLODEX® 
25 mg 
IM 
J9395 
FORMOTEROL FUMARATE, UNIT 
20 mcg 
INH 
J7606 
DOSE, NON-COMPOUNDED 
FECAL MICROBIOTA, LIVE-JSLM 
1 ml 
0TH 
J1440 
FEIBA NF® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7198 
FORMOTEROL, UNIT DOSE FORM, 
12mcg 
INH 
J7640 
COMPOUNDED 
FENSOLVI® 
0.25 mg 
SC 
J1951 
FORT¤ 
500mg 
IV,IM 
J0713 
FENTANYL CITRATE 
0.1 mg 
IV, IM 
J3010 
FORTEO® 
10mcg 
SC 
J3110 
FERRIC CARBOXYMALTOSE 
1 mg 
IV 
J1439 
FOSAPREPITANT 
1 mg 
IV 
J1453 
FERRIC DERISOMALTOSE 
10 mg 
IV 
J1437 
FOSAPREPITANT (MADE BY TEVA) 
1 mg 
IV 
J1456 
FERRIC OXYHYDROXIDE 
12.5 mg 
IV 
J2916 
FOSCARNET SODIUM 
1,000 mg 
IV 
J1455 
FERRIC PYROPHOSPHATE 
0.1 mg of iron 
IV 
J1444 
CITRATE POWDER 
FERRIC PYROPHOSPHATE 
0.1 mg of iron 
IV 
J1445 
FOSCAVIR® 
1,000 mg 
IV 
J1455 
FOSNETUPITANT AND 
235 mg and 
IV 
J1454 
PALONOSETRON 
0.25 mg 
CITRATE SOLUTION (TRIFERIC 
AVNU®) 
FRAGMIN® 
2500 IU 
SC 
J1645 
FERRIC PYROPHOSPHATE 
0.1 mg of iron 
IV 
J1443 
FREMANEZUMAB-VFRM 
1 mg 
SC 
J3031 
CITRATE SOLUTION (TRIFERIC®) 
FULVESTRANT 
25mg 
IM 
J9395 
FETROJA® 
10 mg 
IV 
J0699 
FULVESTRANT (MADE BY 
25mg 
IM 
J9394 
FIASp@ 
per 5 units 
INJ 
J1812 
FRESENIUS KABI) 
FIASp® (ADMINISTERED 
per 50 units 
0TH 
J1811 
FULVESTRANT (MADE BY TEVA) 
25 mg 
IM 
J9393 
THROUGH DME) 
FUROSCI¥ 
20mg 
INJ 
J1941 
FIBRINOGEN CONCENTRATE 
1 mg 
IV 
J7177 
FUROSEMIDE 
up to 20 mg 
IV,IM 
J1940 
(HUMAN) (FIBRYGA¢ 
FIBRINOGEN CONCENTRATE 
1 mg 
IV 
J7178 
(HUMAN), NOS 
FIBRYGA8 
1 mg 
IV 
J7177 
FUROSEMIDE (FUROSCIX®} 
20 mg 
INJ 
J1941 
FUZEON® 
1 mg 
SC 
J1324 
GABLOFEN® 
10 mg 
IT 
J0475 
FILGRASTIM (G-CSF), EXCLUDES 
1 mcg 
IV, SC 
J1442 
GABLOFEN® 
50 mcg 
IT 
J0476 
BIOSIMILARS 
GALLIUM NITRATE 
1 mg 
IV 
J1457 
FIRMAGON® 
1 mg 
SC 
J9155 
GALSULFASE 
1 mg 
IV 
J1458 
FLEBOGAMMA D11'® 
500 mg 
IV 
J1572 
GAMASTAN SID® 
over 10 cc 
IM 
J1560 
FLOLAN® 
0.5mg 
IV 
J1325 
GAMIFANT® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9210 
FLOXURIDINE 
500 mg 
IA 
J9200 
GAMMA GLOBULIN 
1 cc 
IM 
J1460 
FLUCONAZOLE 
200 mg 
IV 
J1450 
GAMMA GLOBULIN 
over 10 cc 
IM 
J1560 
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE 
50 mg 
IV 
J9185 
GAMMAGARD LIQUID® 
500mg 
IV 
J1569 
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE, 
10 mg 
ORAL 
J8562 
GAMMAGARD® S/D 
500 mg 
IV 
J1566 
ORAL 
GAMMAKED® 
500mg 
IV 
J1561 
FLUNISOLIDE, UNIT DOSE FORM, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7641 
COMPOUNDED 
GAMMAPLEX® 
500mg 
IV 
J1557 
FLUOCINOLONE AC ETON I DE, 
0.01 mg 
0TH 
J7314 
(YUTIQ®) 
GAMUNEX-C® 
500 mg 
IV 
J1561 
GANCICLOVIR SODIUM (MADE BY 
500 mg 
IV 
J1574 
FLUOCINOLONE ACETONIDE, 
0.01 mg 
0TH 
J7313 
INTRAVITREAL IMPLANT 
EXELA) 
GANCICLOVIR SODIUM 
500 mg 
IV 
J1570 
(ILUVIEN¢ 
GANCICLOVIR, IMPLANT 
4.5mg 
0TH 
J7310 
FLUOCINOLONE ACETONIDE, 
0.01 mg 
0TH 
J7311 
INTRAVITREAL IMPLANT 
(RETISER£ 
GARAMYCIN® 
up to 80 mg 
IV,IM 
J1580 
GAZYVA® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9301 
487 
GEFITINIB - HYALURONAN OR DERIVITIVE 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
GEFITINIB 
250 mg 
ORAL 
J8565 
HEMLIBRA® 
0.5 mg 
SC 
J7170 
GEL-ONE® 
dose 
0TH 
J7326 
HEMOFIL-M® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7190 
GEL-SYN® 
0.1 mg 
VAR 
J7328 
GEMCITABINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
100 mg 
IV 
J9198 
(IN FU GEM®) 
HEMOPHILIA CLOTTING FACTOR, 
1 IU 
IV 
J7199 
NOT OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED 
HEPAGAM B® 
0.5ml 
IM 
J1571 
GEMCITABINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
200 mg 
IV 
J9196 
HEPAGAM B® 
0.5 ml 
IM 
J1573 
(MADE BY ACCORD) 
HEPARIN SODIUM 
1,000 IU 
IV, SC 
J1644 
GEMCITABINE HYDROCHLORIDE, 
200 mg 
IV 
J9201 
HEPARIN SODIUM (HEPARIN 
10 IU 
IV 
J1642 
NOS 
LOCK FLUSH) 
GEMTUZUMAB OZOGAMIC\N 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9203 
HEPARIN SODIUM (MADE BY 
1000 units 
IV,SC 
J1643 
GENGRAF® 
100 mg 
ORAL 
J7502 
PFIZER) 
GENGRAF® 
25mg 
ORAL 
J7515 
HERCEPTIN HYLECTA® 
10 mg 
SC 
J9356 
GENTAMICIN (GARAMYCIN®) 
up to 80 mg 
IV,IM 
J1580 
HERCEPTIN® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9355 
GENVISC 850® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7320 
HISTRELIN ACETATE 
10 mcg 
0TH 
J1675 
GIVLAARI® 
0.5mg 
SC 
J0223 
HISTRELIN IMPLANT (SUPPRELIN 
50mg 
0TH 
J9226 
GIVOSIRAN 
0.5 mg 
SC 
J0223 
GLASSIA® 
10mg 
IV 
J0257 
GLATIRAMER ACETATE 
20 mg 
SC 
J1595 
GLOFITAMAB-GXBM 
2.5 mg 
IV 
J9286 
GLUCAGEN® 
1 mg 
IV, IM, SC 
J1610 
GLUCAGON HYDROCHLORIDE 
1 mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J1610 
GLUCAGON HYDROCHLORIDE 
1 mg 
IV,IM,SC 
J1611 
(MADE BY FRESENIUS KABI) 
GLYCOPYRROLATE 
0.1 mg 
IV, IM 
J1596 
LA®) 
HISTRELIN IMPLANT (VANTAS®) 
50 mg 
0TH 
J9225 
HIZENTRA® 
100mg 
SC 
J1559 
HUMATE-P® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7187 
HUMIRA® 
20 mg 
SC 
J0135 
HYALGAN® 
dose 
0TH 
J7321 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7318 
DUROLANE® 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
dose 
0TH 
J7323 
EUFLEXXA® 
GLYCOPYRROLATE, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7642 
CONCENTRATED FORM, 
COMPOUNDED 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
dose 
0TH 
J7326 
GEL-ONE® 
GLYCOPYRROLATE, UNIT DOSE 
1 mg 
\NH 
J7643 
FORM,COMPOUNDED 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7320 
GENVISC 850® 
GOLD SODIUM THIOMALATE 
up to 50 mg 
IM 
J1600 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
dose 
0TH 
J7321 
HYALGAN® 
GOLIMUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J1602 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7322 
GOLODIRSEN 
10mg 
IM 
J1429 
HYMOVIS® 
GONADORELIN HYDROCHLORIDE 
100 mcg 
IV,SC 
J1620 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
dose 
0TH 
J7327 
GOSERELIN ACETATE IMPLANT 
3.6 mg 
0TH 
J9202 
MONOVISC® 
GRANISETRON HYDROCHLORIDE 
100 mcg 
IV 
J1626 
GRANISETRON, EXTENDED 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J1627 
RELEASE 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
dose 
0TH 
J7324 
ORTHOVISC® 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
dose 
0TH 
J7321 
GRANIX® 
1 mcg 
SC 
J1447 
GUSELKUMAB 
1 mg 
SC 
J1628 
SUPARTZ® 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7331 
SYNOJOYNT® 
HAEGARDA® 
101U 
SC 
J0599 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7325 
HALAVEN® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9179 
SYNVISC® 
HALDOL DECANOATE® 
50 mg 
IM 
J1631 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7325 
HALDOL® 
up to 5 mg 
IV,IM 
J1630 
SYNVISC-ONE® 
HALOPERIDOL 
up to 5 mg 
IV,IM 
J1630 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7332 
TRILURON® 
HALOPERIDOL DECANOATE 
50 mg 
IM 
J1631 
HECTOROL® 
1 mcg 
IV 
J1270 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7329 
TRIVISC® 
HELIXATE FS® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7192 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVATIVE, 
dose 
0TH 
J7321 
HEMGENIX® 
per therapeutic 
IV 
J1411 
VISCO-3® 
dose 
HYALURONAN OR DERIVITIVE, 
0.1 mg 
VAR 
J7328 
HEMIN 
1 mg 
IV 
J1640 
GEL-SYN® 
488 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
HYALURONIDASE- INSULIN (ADMINISTERED THROUGH DME) 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
HYALURONIDASE 
up to 150 IU 
IV,SC 
J3470 
IMIPENEM, CILASTATIN, 
various 
IV 
J0742 
HYALURONIDASE, OVINE, 
up to 999 IU 
SC 
J3471 
RELEBACTAM 
PRESERVATIVE FREE 
IMITREX® 
6 mg 
SC 
J3030 
HYALURONIDASE, OVINE, 
1000 IU 
SC 
J3472 
PRESERVATIVE FREE 
IMJUDO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9347 
IMLYGIC® 
1 million PFU 
0TH 
J9325 
HYALURONIDASE, RECOMBINANT 
1 usp 
VAR 
J3473 
HYCAMTIN® 
0.25 mg 
ORAL 
J8705 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, ASCENIV™ 
500 mg 
IV 
J1554 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, BIVIGAM® 
500mg 
IV 
J1556 
HYCAMTIN® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9351 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, CUTAQUIG® 
100mg 
SC 
J1551 
HYDRALAZINE HCL 
up to 20 mg 
IV, IM 
J0360 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, CUVITRU® 
100 mg 
SC 
J1555 
HYDROCORTISONE ACETATE 
up to 25 mg 
IV, IM, SC 
J1700 
HYDROCORTISONE SODIUM 
up to 50 mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J1710 
PHOSPHATE 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, 
500 mg 
IV 
J1572 
FLEBOGAMMA®/FLEBOGAMMA 
DIF® 
HYDROCORTISONE SODIUM 
up to 100 mg 
IV,IM,SC 
J1720 
SUCCINATE 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, 
500 mg 
IV 
J1569 
GAMMAGARD LIQUID® 
HYDROMORPHONE 
up to 4 mg 
IV, IM, SC 
J1170 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, 
500 mg 
IV 
J1557 
GAMMAPLEX® 
HYDROXOCOBALAMIN 
10mcg 
IM 
J3425 
HYDROXYPROGESTERONE 
10mg 
IM,SC 
J1726 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, 
500mg 
IV 
J1561 
GAMUNEX-C®/GAMMAKED® 
CAPROATE,MAKENA® 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, HEPATITIS B, 
0.5ml 
IM 
J1571 
HYDROXYPROGESTERONE 
10 mg 
IV 
J1729 
HEPAGAM B® 
CAPROATE, NOT OTHERWISE 
SPECIFIED 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, HEPATITIS B, 
0.5ml 
IM 
J1573 
HEPAGAM B® 
HYDROXYZINE HCL 
up to 25 mg 
IM 
J3410 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, HIZENTRA® 
100 mg 
SC 
J1559 
HYLENEX® 
1 usp 
VAR 
J3473 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, LYOPHILIZED 
·-
500 mg 
IV 
J1566 
HYMOVIS® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7322 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, NON-
500 mg 
IV 
J1599 
HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE 
up to 0.25 mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J1980 
LYOPHILIZED 
HYPERRHO S/D FULL DOSE® 
1 dose 
IM 
J2790 
package, 300 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, NON-
500 mg 
IV 
J1576 
LYOPHILIZED, PANZYGA® 
mcg 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, OCTAGAM® 
500mg 
IV 
J1568 
HYPERRHO SID MINI DOSE® 
50 mcg 
IM 
J2788 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, PRIVIGEN® 
500mg 
IV 
J1459 
HYPERTET SID® 
up to 250 IU 
IM 
J1670 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, 
100 IU 
IV,IM 
J2791 
HYPERTONIC SALINE SOLUTION 
1 ml 
IV 
J7131 
RHOPHYLAC® 
HYQVIA® 
100 mg 
SC 
J1575 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, VIVAGLOBIN® 
100mg 
IV 
J1562 
IBALIZUMAB-UIYK 
10 mg 
IV 
J1746 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN, XEMBIFY® 
100mg 
SC 
J1558 
IBANDRONATE SODIUM 
1 mg 
IV 
J1740 
IBUPROFEN 
100 mg 
IV 
J1741 
IMMUNE GLOBULIN/ 
100mg 
SC 
J1575 
HYALURONIDASE (HYQVIA®) 
IMMUNOSUPPRESSIVE DRUG, 
. 
J7599 
IBUTILIDE FUMARATE 
1 mg 
IV 
J1742 
NOT OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED 
ICATIBANT 
1 mg 
SC 
J1744 
INCLISIRAN 
1 mg 
SC 
J1306 
IDAMYCIN PFS® 
5 mg 
IV 
J9211 
INCOBOTULINUM TOXIN A 
1 IU 
IM 
J0588 
IDARUBICIN HCL 
5 mg 
IV 
J9211 
INCRELEX® 
1 mg 
SC 
J2170 
IDELVION® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7202 
INEBILIZUMAB-CDON 
1 mg 
IV 
J1823 
IDURSULFASE 
1 mg 
IV 
J1743 
INFED® 
50 mg 
IV 
J1750 
IFEX® 
1 g 
IV 
J9208 
IFOSFAMIDE 
1 g 
IV 
J9208 
ILARIS® 
1 mg 
SC 
J0638 
ILUMYA® 
1 mg 
SC 
J3245 
ILUVIEN® 
0.01 mg 
0TH 
J7313 
IMFINZI® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9173 
INFLIXIMAB, (EXCLUDES 
10 mg 
IV 
J1745 
BIOSIMILAR) 
INFUGEM® 
100 mg 
IV 
J9198 
IN FU MORPH® 
10 mg 
0TH 
J2274 
INJECTAFER® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1439 
INOTUZUMAB OZOGAMICIN 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9229 
INSULIN 
SIU 
SC 
J1815 
IMIGLUCERASE 
10IU 
IV 
J1786 
INSULIN (ADMINISTERED 
50 IU 
SC 
J1817 
IMIPENEM AND CILASTATIN 
250 mg 
IV, IM 
J0743 
THROUGH DME) 
489 
INSULIN (FIASP®) - LECANEMAB-IRMB 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
INSULIN (FIASP®) 
per 5 units 
INJ 
J1812 
INSULIN (FIASP®) (ADMINISTERED 
per 50 units 
0TH 
J1811 
THROUGH DME) 
ISOPROTERENOL HCL, UNIT 
1 mg 
INH 
J7659 
DOSE FORM, NON-COMPOUNDED 
ISTODAX® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9319 
INSULIN (LYUMJEV®) 
per 5 units 
INJ 
J1814 
INSULIN (LYUMJEV®) 
per 50 units 
0TH 
J1813 
(ADMINISTERED THROUGH DME) 
ITRACONAZOLE 
50 mg 
IV 
J1835 
IXABEPILONE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9207 
IXEMPRA KIT® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9207 
INTERFERON ALFA-2A, 
3 million IU 
SC 
J9213 
IXINITY® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7213 
RECOMBINANT 
JELMYTO® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J9281 
INTERFERON ALFA-2B, 
1 million IU 
VAR 
J9214 
JEMPERLI® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9272 
RECOMBINANT 
INTERFERON ALFA-N3 (HUMAN 
250,000 IU 
IV 
J9215 
LEUKOCYTE DERIVED) 
JESDUVROQ® (FOR ESRD) 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J0889 
JEVTANA KIT® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9043 
INTERFERON ALPHACON-1, 
1 mcg 
SC 
J9212 
JIVI® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7208 
RECOMBINANT 
KADCYLA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9354 
INTERFERON BETA-1A 
30 mcg 
IM 
J1826 
KALBITOR® 
1 mg 
SC 
J1290 
INTERFERON BETA-1B 
0.25 mg 
SC 
J1830 
KANAMYCIN SULFATE 
up to 500 mg 
IV,IM 
J1840 
INTERFERON GAMMA-1B 
3 million IU 
SC 
J9216 
KANAMYCIN SULFATE 
up to 75 mg 
IV,IM 
J1850 
INTRON A® 
1 million IU 
VAR 
J9214 
KANUMA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2840 
INVANz® 
500 mg 
IV,IM 
J1335 
KCENTRA® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7168 
INVEGA HAFYERA ™ 
1 mg 
IM 
J2427 
KENALOG® 
10 mg 
VAR 
J3301 
INVEGA SUSTENNA® 
1 mg 
IM 
J2426 
KEPIVANCE® 
50 mcg 
IV 
J2425 
INVEGA TRINZA® 
1 mg 
IM 
J2427 
KEPPRA® 
10 mg 
IV 
J1953 
IPILIMUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9228 
KESIMPTA® 
10mg 
SC 
J9303 
IPRATROPIUM BROMIDE, UNIT 
1 mg 
INH 
J7645 
KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE 
15mg 
IV,IM 
J1885 
DOSE FORM,COMPOUNDED 
KEYTRUDA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9271 
IPRATROPIUM BROMIDE, UNIT 
1 mg 
INH 
J7644 
KHAPZORY® 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J0642 
DOSE FORM, NON-COMPOUNDED 
KIMYRSA™ 
10 mg 
IV 
J2406 
IRESSA® 
250 mg 
ORAL 
J8565 
KINEVAC® 
5 mcg 
IV 
J2805 
IRINOTECAN 
20 mg 
IV 
J9206 
KITABIS PAK® 
300 mg 
INH 
J7682 
IRINOTECAN LIPOSOME 
1 mg 
IV 
J9205 
KOATE® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7190 
IRON DEXTRAN 
50 mg 
IV 
J1750 
KOGENATE FS® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7192 
IRON SUCROSE 
1 mg 
IV 
J1756 
KOVAL TRY® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7211 
ISATUXIMAB-IRFC 
10 mg 
IV 
J9227 
KRYSTEXXA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2507 
ISAVUCONAZONIUM 
1 mg 
IV 
J1833 
KYLEENA® 
19.5 mg 
0TH 
J7296 
ISOETHARINE HCL, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7647 
KYPROLIS® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9047 
CONCENTRATED FORM, 
COMPOUNDED 
LABETALOL HYDROCHLORIDE 
5mg 
IV 
J1920 
ISOETHARINE HCL, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7648 
CONCENTRATED FORM, NON-
COMPOUNDED 
LABETALOL HYDROCHLORIDE 
5mg 
IV 
J1921 
(MADE BY HIKMA) 
LACTATED RINGERS 
up to 1,000 cc 
IV 
J7120 
ISOETHARINE HCL, UNIT DOSE 
1 mg 
INH 
J7650 
FORM, COMPOUNDED 
LACTATED RINGERS WITH 
up to 1000 cc 
IV 
J7121 
DEXTROSE 5% 
ISOETHARINE HCL, UNIT DOSE 
1 mg 
INH 
J7649 
FORM, NON-COMPOUNDED 
LAETRILE, AMYGDALIN, VITAMIN 
dose 
VAR 
J3570 
B17 
ISOPROTERENOL HCL, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7657 
LAMZEDE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0217 
CONCENTRATED FORM, 
LANADELUMAB-FLYO 
1 mg 
SC 
J0593 
COMPOUNDED 
LANOXIN® 
up to 0.5 mg 
IV, IM 
J1160 
ISOPROTERENOL HCL, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7658 
CONCENTRATED FORM, NON-
COMPOUNDED 
LANREOTIDE 
1 mg 
SC 
J1930 
LANREOTIDE (MADE BY CIPLA) 
1 mg 
SC 
J1932 
ISOPROTERENOL HCL, UNIT 
1 mg 
INH 
J7660 
LARONIDASE 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J1931 
DOSE FORM,COMPOUNDED 
LECANEMAB-IRMB 
1 mg 
IV 
J0174 
490 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
LEFAMULIN - MELPHALAN 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
LEFAMULIN 
1 mg 
IV 
J0691 
LIDOCAINE HCL 
10 mg 
IV 
J2001 
LEMTRADA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0202 
LIDOCAINE IN D5W® 
10 mg 
IV 
J2001 
LENACAPAVIR 
1 mg 
SC 
J1961 
LILETTA9 
52mg 
0TH 
J7297 
LEPIRUDIN 
50 mg 
IV 
J1945 
LINCOCIN® 
up to 300 mg 
IV 
J2010 
LEQEMBI® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0174 
LINCOMYCIN 
up to 300 mg 
IV 
J2010 
LEUCOVORIN CALCIUM 
50 mg 
IV,IM 
J0640 
LINEZOLID 
200mg 
IV 
J2020 
LEUKINE® 
50 mcg 
IV 
J2820 
LINEZOLID (MADE BY HOSPIRA) 
200mg 
IV 
J2021 
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE 
1 mg 
IM 
J9218 
LIORESAL® 
10 mg 
IT 
J0475 
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE, (FOR 
3.75 mg 
IM 
J1950 
LIORESAL® 
50 mcg 
IT 
J0476 
DEPOT SUSPENSION) 
LONCASTUXIMAB TESIRINE-LPYL 
0.075 mg 
IV 
J9359 
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE, (FOR 
7.5mg 
IM 
J9217 
LORAZEPAM 
2 mg 
IV,IM 
J2060 
DEPOT SUSPENSION) 
LOVENOX® 
10 mg 
SC 
J1650 
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE, 
0.25 mg 
SC 
J1951 
(FOR DEPOT SUSPENSION) 
(FENSOLVI¯ 
LOXAPINE (FOR INHALATION) 
1 mg 
0TH 
J2062 
LUCENTIS9 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J2778 
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE, (FOR 
7.5 mg 
IM 
J1954 
LUMASIRAN 
0.5 mg 
SC 
J0224 
DEPOT SUSPENSION) (MADE BY 
LUMIZYME® 
10 mg 
IV 
J0221 
CIPLA) 
LUMOXITI® 
0.01 mg 
IV 
J9313 
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE, IMPLANT 
65 mg 
0TH 
J9219 
LUNSUMIO™ 
1 mg 
IV 
J9350 
LEUPROLIDE MESYLATE 
1 mg 
SC 
J1952 
(CAMCEVI¯ 
LEVALBUTEROL,CONCENTRATED 
0.5 mg 
INH 
J7607 
LUPRON DEPOT1' 
3.75 mg 
IM 
J1950 
LUPRON DEPOT1' 
1 mg 
IM 
J9218 
FORM,COMPOUNDED 
LURBINECTEDIN 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9223 
LEVALBUTEROL,CONCENTRATED 
0.5 mg 
INH 
J7612 
LUSPATERCEPT-AAMT 
0.25 mg 
SC 
J0896 
FORM, NON-COMPOUNDED 
LUTRATE DEPOT Kll1' 
7.5 mg 
IM 
J9217 
LEVALBUTEROL, UNIT DOSE, 
0.5mg 
INH 
J7615 
LUXTURNA® 
1 billion vector 
0TH 
J3398 
COMPOUNDED 
genomes 
LEVALBUTEROL, UNIT DOSE, 
0.5 mg 
INH 
J7614 
LYMPHOCYTE IMMUNE 
250 mg 
IV 
J7504 
NON-COMPOUNDED 
GLOBULIN, ANTI-THYMOCYTE 
LEVETIRACETAM 
10mg 
IV 
J1953 
GLOBULIN, EQUINE 
LEVOCARNITINE 
1 g 
IV 
J1955 
LYMPHOCYTE IMMUNE 
25 mg 
IV 
J7511 
GLOBULIN, ANTI-THYMOCYTE 
LEVOFLOXACIN 
250 mg 
IV 
J1956 
GLOBULIN, RABBIT 
LEVOLEUCOVORIN (KHAPZORY®) 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J0642 
LYUMJEV® 
per 5 units 
INJ 
J1814 
LEVOLEUCOVORIN, NOT 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J0641 
LYUMJEV® (ADMINISTERED 
per 50 units 
0TH 
J1813 
OTHERWISE SPECIFIED 
THROUGH DME) 
LEVONORGESTREL IMPLANT 
each 
0TH 
J7306 
MACI® 
each 
0TH 
J7330 
LEVONORGESTREL-RELEASING 
19.5mg 
0TH 
J7296 
MAGNESIUM SULFATE 
500mg 
IV, IM 
J3475 
INTRAUTERINE CONTRACEPTIVE 
SYSTEM,KYLEENA® 
LEVONORGESTREL-RELEASING 
52 mg 
0TH 
J7297 
INTRAUTERINE CONTRACEPTIVE 
MAKENA9 
10mg 
IM,SC 
J1726 
MANNITOL 
25% in 50 ml 
IV 
J2150 
MANNITOL 
5mg 
INH 
J7665 
SYSTEM, LILETTA® 
MARGETUXIMAB-CMKB 
5mg 
IV 
J9353 
LEVONORGESTREL-RELEASING 
52 mg 
0TH 
J7298 
MATGENZA® 
5 mg 
IV 
J9353 
INTRAUTERINE CONTRACEPTIVE 
SYSTEM, MIRENA® 
LEVONORGESTREL-RELEASING 
13.5 mg 
0TH 
J7301 
INTRAUTERINE CONTRACEPTIVE 
SYSTEM,SKYLA® 
MAXIPIME® 
500mg 
IV 
J0692 
MECASERMIN 
1 mg 
SC 
J2170 
MECHLORETHAMINE HCL 
10 mg 
IV 
J9230 
(NITROGEN MUSTARD), HN2 
LEVORPHANOL TARTRATE 
up to 2 mg 
IV, SC 
J1960 
MEDROL9 
4mg 
ORAL 
J7509 
LEVSIN® 
up to 0.25 mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J1980 
LEVULAN KERASTICK® 
unit dose (354 
0TH 
J7308 
mg) 
MEDROXYPROGESTERONE 
1 mg 
IM 
J1050 
ACETATE 
MELOXICAM 
1 mg 
IV 
J1738 
LIBTAYO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9119 
MELPHALAN 
2 mg 
ORAL 
J8600 
491 
MELPHALAN (EVOMELA®)- MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
MELPHALAN {EVOMELA®) 
50mg 
IV 
J9246 
MELPHALAN FLUFENAMIDE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9247 
MELPHALAN HCL 
50 mg 
IV 
J9245 
MEPERIDINE AND 
up to 50 mg 
IV, IM 
J2180 
PROMETHAZINE HCL 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE SODIUM 
up to 125 mg 
IV, IM 
J2930 
SUCCINATE 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE, ORAL 
4 mg 
ORAL 
J7509 
METOCLOPRAMIDE HCL 
upto10mg 
IV 
J2765 
METRONIDAZOLE 
10 mg 
IV 
J1836 
MEPERIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
100 mg 
IV,IM,SC 
J2175 
MIACALCIN® 
up to 400 IU 
IM,SC 
J0630 
MEPIVACAINE HCL 
10ml 
VAR 
J0670 
MICAFUNGIN SODIUM 
1 mg 
IV 
J2248 
MEPOLIZUMAB 
1 mg 
SC 
J2182 
MICAFUNGIN SODIUM (MADE BY 
1 mg 
IV 
J2247 
MEPSEVII® 
1 mg 
IV 
J3397 
MEROPENEM 
100 mg 
IV 
J2185 
MEROPENEM (MADE BY B. 
100 mg 
IV 
J2184 
BRAUN) 
MEROPENEM AND 
10mg/10mg 
IV 
J2186 
VABORBACTAM 
PAR PHARM) 
MICRHOGAM® 
50 mcg 
IM 
J2788 
MIDAZOLAM HCL 
1 mg 
IV,IM 
J2250 
MIDAZOLAM HCL (MADE BY WG 
1 mg 
IV 
J2251 
CRITICAL CARE) 
MILRINONE LACTATE 
5mg 
IV 
J2260 
MERREM® 
100 mg 
IV 
J2185 
MINOCIN® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2265 
MESNA 
200 mg 
IV 
J9209 
MINOCYCLINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
1 mg 
IV 
J2265 
MESNEX® 
200 mg 
IV 
J9209 
MIRCERA® (FOR ESRD) 
1 mcg 
IV,SC 
J0887 
METAPROTERENOL SULFATE, 
10 mg 
\NH 
J7667 
MIRCERA® (NON-ESRD USE) 
1 mcg 
IV, SC 
J0888 
CONCENTRATED FORM, 
MIRENA® 
52mg 
0TH 
J7298 
COMPOUNDED 
METAPROTERENOL SULFATE, 
10mg 
\NH 
J7668 
MIRVETUXIMAB SORAVTANSINE-
1 mg 
IV 
J9063 
GYNX 
CONCENTRATED FORM, NON-
COMPOUNDED 
MITIGO™ 
10 mg 
0TH 
J2274 
METAPROTERENOL SULFATE, 
10mg 
\NH 
J7670 
MITOMYCIN 
5mg 
IV 
J9280 
UNIT DOSE FORM, COMPOUNDED 
MITOMYCIN PYELOCALYCEAL 
1 mg 
0TH 
J9281 
METAPROTERENOL SULFATE, 
10 mg 
\NH 
J7669 
MITOMYCIN, OPTHALMIC 
0.2 mg 
0TH 
J7315 
UNIT DOSE FORM, NON-
COMPOUNDED 
MITOSOL® 
0.2 mg 
0TH 
J7315 
METARAMINOL BITARTRATE 
10 mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J0380 
METHACHOLINE CHLORIDE 
1 mg 
\NH 
J7674 
METHADONE HCL 
up to 10 mg 
IM, SC 
J1230 
MITOXANTRONE HCL 
5 mg 
IV 
J9293 
MOGAMULIZUMAB-KPKC 
1 mg 
IV 
J9204 
MOMETASONE FUROATE SINUS 
10 mcg 
0TH 
J7402 
IMPLANT, (SINUVA ™) 
METHERGINE® 
UPTO 0.2 mg 
IV, IM 
J2210 
MONJUVI® 
2mg 
IV 
J9349 
METHOCARBAMOL 
upto10ml 
IV,IM 
J2800 
MONOFERRIC® 
10 mg 
IV 
J1437 
METHOTREXATE 
2.5 mg 
ORAL 
J8610 
MONONINE® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7193 
METHOTREXATE (MADE BY 
50 mg 
IV,IM, 
J9255 
ACCORD) 
IT, IA 
METHOTREXATE SODIUM 
5 mg 
IV, IM, IT, 
J9250 
MONOVISC® 
dose 
0TH 
J7327 
MORPHINE SULFATE 
upto10mg 
IV,IM,SC 
J2270 
IA,SC 
MORPHINE SULFATE 
10mg 
0TH 
J2274 
METHOTREXATE SODIUM 
50mg 
IV,IM,IT, 
J9260 
MORPHINE SULFATE (MADE BY 
upto10mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J2272 
IA, SC 
FRESENIUS KABI) 
METHYL AMINOLEVULINATE, 
1 gram 
0TH 
J7309 
MOSUNETUZUMAB-AXGB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9350 
TOPICAL, 16.8% 
MOXETUMOMAB PASUDOTOX-
0.01 mg 
IV 
J9313 
METHYLDOPATE HCL 
up to 250 mg 
IV 
J0210 
TDFK 
METHYLERGONOVINE MALEATE 
UPT00.2mg 
IV, IM 
J2210 
MOXIFLOXACIN 
100 mg 
IV 
J2280 
METHYLNALTREXONE 
0.1 mg 
SC 
J2212 
MOXIFLOXACIN (MADE BY 
100 mg 
IV 
J2281 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE 
20 mg 
IM 
J1020 
FRESENIUS KABI) 
ACETATE 
MOZOBIL® 
1 mg 
SC 
J2562 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE 
40 mg 
IM 
J1030 
MUROMONAB-CD3, PARENTERAL 
5 mg 
IV 
J7505 
ACETATE 
MUSE® 
each 
0TH 
J0275 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE 
80 mg 
IM 
J1040 
ACETATE 
MYCAMINE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2248 
METHYLPREDNISOLONE SODIUM 
up to 40 mg 
IV, IM 
J2920 
MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL 
250 mg 
ORAL 
J7517 
SUCCINATE 
MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL 
10 mg 
IV 
J7519 
492 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
MYCOPHENOLIC ACID - OXALIPLATIN 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
MYCOPHENOLIC ACID, ORAL 
180mg 
ORAL 
J7518 
NOT OTHERWISE 
. 
ORAL 
J8499 
MYLOTARG® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9203 
MYOBLOC® 
100IU 
IM 
J0587 
MYOZYME® 
10 mg 
IV 
J0220 
NABILONE 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J8650 
NADOFARAGENE FIRADENOVEC-
per therapeutic 
0TH 
J9029 
VNCG 
dose 
CLASSIFIED DRUGS, 
NONCHEMOTHERAPEUTIC 
NOVAREL® 
1,000 IU 
IM 
J0725 
NOVOEIGHT® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7182 
NOVOSEVEN RT® 
1 mcg 
IV 
J7189 
NPLATE® 
10 mcg 
SC 
J2796 
NAGLAZYME® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1458 
NUCALA® 
1 mg 
SC 
J2182 
NALBUPHINE HCL 
10mg 
IV,IM,SC 
J2300 
NULOJIX® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0485 
NALOXONE HCL 
1 mg 
IV,IM,SC 
J2310 
NUSINERSEN 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J2326 
NALOXONE HCL (ZIMHI™} 
1 mg 
IM 
J2311 
NUWIQ® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7209 
NALTREXONE (DEPOT FORM) 
1 mg 
IM 
J2315 
NUZYRA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J0121 
NANDROLONE DECANOATE 
up to 50 mg 
IM 
J2320 
OBINUTUZUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J9301 
NAROPIN® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J2795 
OBIZUR® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7188 
NASAL VACCINE INHALATION 
dose 
INH 
J3530 
OCRELIZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J2350 
NATALIZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J2323 
OCREVUS® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2350 
NAXITAMAB-GQGK 
1 mg 
IV 
J9348 
OCRIPLASMIN 
0.125 mg 
0TH 
J7316 
NEBUPENT® 
300mg 
INH 
J2545 
OCTAGAM® 
500mg 
IV 
J1568 
NECITUMUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9295 
OCTREOTIDE, DEPOT FORM 
1 mg 
IM 
J2353 
NELARABINE 
50mg 
IV 
J9261 
OCTREOTIDE, NON-DEPOT FORM 
25 mcg 
IV,SC 
J2354 
NEMBUTAL SODIUM® 
50mg 
IV, IM 
J2515 
OFATUMUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J9302 
NEORAL® 
100 mg 
ORAL 
J7502 
OLANZAPINE 
1 mg 
IM 
J2358 
NEORAL® 
25 mg 
ORAL 
J7515 
OLANZAPINE 
0.5 mg 
IM 
J2359 
NEOSTIGMINE METHYLSULFATE 
up to 0.5 mg 
IV, IM, SC 
J2710 
OLARATUMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J9285 
NESIRITIDE 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J2325 
OLIPUDASE ALFA-RPCP 
1 mg 
IV 
J0218 
NETUPITANT AND 
300 mg 
ORAL 
J8655 
OMACETAXINE MEPESUCCINATE 
0.01 mg 
SC 
J9262 
PALONOSETRON 
OMADACYCLINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J0121 
NEULASTA® 
0.5 mg 
SC 
J2506 
OMALIZUMAB 
5mg 
SC 
J2357 
NEUPOGEN® 
1 mcg 
IV, SC 
J1442 
OMIDRIA® 
1 ml 
0TH 
J1097 
NEXPLANON® 
each 
0TH 
J7307 
ONABOTULINUM TOXIN A 
1 IU 
IM 
J0585 
NEXTERONE® 
30mg 
IV 
J0283 
ONASEMNOGENE 
up to 5 
IV 
J3399 
NICARDIPINE 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J2404 
ABEPARVOVEC-XIOI 
x1015 vector 
NIPENT® 
10mg 
IV 
J9268 
NITROGLYCERIN 
5mg 
IV 
J2305 
genomes 
ONCASPAR® 
single dose 
IV,IM 
J9266 
vial 
NIVOLUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9299 
ONDANSETRON HCI 
1 mg 
IV 
J2405 
NIVOLUMAB AND RELATLIMAB-
3 mg/1 mg 
IV 
J9298 
RMBW 
NONCHEMOTHERAPEUTIC, NOT 
. 
ORAL 
J8499 
OTHERWISE SPECIFIED 
ONIVYDE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9205 
ONPATTRO® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J0222 
OPDIVO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9299 
NOT OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED 
. 
. 
J0799 
OPRELVEKIN 
5 mg 
SC 
J2355 
DRUG, FDA APPROVED 
ORBACTIV® 
10mg 
IV 
J2407 
PRESCRIPTION 
ORENCIA® 
10mg 
IV 
J0129 
NOT OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED 
INH 
J7699 
DRUGS 
ORITAVANCIN 
10 mg 
IV 
J2407 
NOT OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED 
. 
0TH 
J7799 
ORITAVANCIN (KIMYRSA™) 
10 mg 
IV 
J2406 
DRUGS, ADMINISTERED 
ORPHENADRINE CITRATE 
up to 60 mg 
IV,IM 
J2360 
THROUGH DME 
ORTHOVISC® 
dose 
0TH 
J7324 
NOT OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED 
ORAL 
J8999 
DRUGS, CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC 
NOT OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED 
. 
. 
J7599 
DRUGS, IMMUNOSUPPRESSIVE 
OTIPRIO® 
6 mg 
0TH 
J7342 
OXACILLIN SODIUM 
up to 250 mg 
IV, IM 
J2700 
OXALIPLATIN 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J9263 
493 
OXLUMO® - PLAZOMICIN 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
OXLUMO® 
0.5mg 
SC 
J0224 
PEMETREXED (PEMFEXY®) 
10 mg 
IV 
J9304 
OXYMORPHONE HCL 
upto 1 mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J2410 
PEMETREXED (PEMRYDI RTU®) 
10mg 
IV 
J9324 
OXYTETRACYCLINE HCL 
up to 50 mg 
IM 
J2460 
PEMETREXED DITROMETHAMINE 
10 mg 
IV 
J9323 
OXYTOCIN 
upto 10 IU 
IV,IM 
J2590 
PEMETREXED, NOT OTHERWISE 
10mg 
IV 
J9305 
OZURDEX® 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J7312 
PACLITAXEL 
1 mg 
IV 
J9267 
PACLITAXEL PROTEIN BOUND 
1 mg 
IV 
J9264 
PARTICLES 
SPECIFIED 
PEMFEXY® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9304 
PEMRYDI RTU® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9324 
PENICILLIN G BENZATHINE 
100,000 IU 
IM 
J0561 
PACLITAXEL PROTEIN BOUND 
1 mg 
IV 
J9259 
PENICILLIN G BENZATHINE AND 
100,000 IU 
IM 
J0558 
PARTICLES (MADE BY AMERICAN 
PENICILLIN G PROCAINE 
REGENT) 
PENICILLIN G POTASSIUM 
up to 
IV,IM 
J2540 
PACLITAXEL PROTEIN BOUND 
1 mg 
IV 
J9258 
600,000 IU 
PARTICLES (MADE BY TEVA) 
PENICILLIN G PROCAINE, 
upto 
IV, IM 
J2510 
PADCEV® 
0.25 mg 
IV 
J9177 
AQUEOUS 
600,000 IU 
PALIFERMIN 
50 mcg 
IV 
J2425 
PALIPERIDONE PALMITATE, 
1 mg 
IM 
J2426 
EXTENDED RELEASE 
PALIPERIDONE PALMITATE, 
1 mg 
IM 
J2427 
EXTENDED RELEASE (INVEGA 
PENTAMIDINE ISETHIONATE, 
300 mg 
INH 
J2545 
INHALATION SOLUTION, NON-
COMPOUNDED 
PENTAMIDINE, COMPOUNDED 
300 mg 
INH 
J7676 
PENTASTARCH, 10% SOLUTION 
100 ml 
IV 
J2513 
HAFYERA r• OR INVEGA TRINZA®) 
PENTAZOCINE 
30 mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J3070 
PALONOSETRON HCL 
25 mcg 
IV 
J2469 
PENTOBARBITAL SODIUM 
50 mg 
IV, IM 
J2515 
PAMIDRONATE DISODIUM 
30 mg 
IV 
J2430 
PENTOSTATIN 
10 mg 
IV 
J9268 
PANHEMATIN® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1640 
PERAMIVIR 
1 mg 
IV 
J2547 
PAN ITU MU MAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J9303 
PERFOROMIST® 
20 mcg 
INH 
J7606 
PANZVGA® 
500mg 
IV 
J1576 
PERJETA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9306 
PAPAVERINE HCL 
up to 60 mg 
IV,IM 
J2440 
PERPHENAZINE 
up to 5 mg 
IV,IM 
J3310 
PARICALCITOL 
1 mcg 
IV,IM 
J2501 
PERSERIS® 
0.5 mg 
SC 
J2798 
PARSABIV® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J0606 
PERTUZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9306 
PASIREOTIDE, LONG ACTING 
1 mg 
IM 
J2502 
PERTUZUMAB, TRASTUZUMAB, 
10 mg 
SC 
J9316 
PATISIRAN 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J0222 
AND HYALURONIDASE-ZZXF 
PEGADEMASE BOVINE 
25IU 
IM 
J2504 
PFIZERPEN® 
up to 
IV,IM 
J2540 
PEGAPTANIB SODIUM 
0.3 mg 
0TH 
J2503 
PEGASPARGASE 
single dose 
IV,IM 
J9266 
vial 
600,000 IU 
PHENOBARBITAL SODIUM 
up to 120 mg 
IV,IM 
J2560 
PHENOBARBITAL SODIUM 
1 mg 
IV 
J2561 
PEGCETACOPLAN 
1 mg 
0TH 
J2781 
(SEZABY™) 
(INTRAVITREAL) 
PHENTOLAMINE MESYLATE 
up to 5 mg 
IV,IM 
J2760 
PEGFILGRASTIM, EXCLUDES 
0.5mg 
SC 
J2506 
PHENYLEPHRINE AND 
1 ml 
0TH 
J1097 
BIOSIMILAR 
KETOROLAC 
PEGINESATIDE (FOR ESRD) 
0.1 mg 
IV.SC 
J0890 
PHENYLEPHRINE 
20 mcg 
IV 
J2371 
PEGLOTICASE 
1 mg 
IV 
J2507 
HYDROCHLORIDE 
PEGUNIGALSIDASE ALFA-IWXJ 
1 mg 
IV 
J2508 
PHENYLEPHRINE 
20 mcg 
IV 
J2372 
HYDROCHLORIDE (BIORPHEN®) 
PEMBROLIZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J9271 
PHENYTOIN SODIUM 
50 mg 
IV, IM 
J1165 
PEMETREXED (MADE BY 
10 mg 
IV 
J9296 
ACCORD) 
PHESGO® 
10 mg 
SC 
J9316 
PEMETREXED (MADE BY 
10mg 
IV 
J9322 
PHOTOFRIN® 
75 mg 
IV 
J9600 
BLUEPOINT) 
PHYTONADIONE, VITAMIN K 
1 mg 
IV,IM,SC 
J3430 
PEMETREXED (MADE BY 
10 mg 
IV 
J9294 
PIPERACILLIN/TAZOBACTAM 
1.125 g 
IV 
J2543 
HOSPIRA) 
SODIUM 
PEMETREXED (MADE BY 
10 mg 
IV 
J9297 
PITOCIN® 
up to 10 IU 
IV,IM 
J2590 
SANDOZ) 
PLASMINOGEN, HUMAN-TVMH 
1 mg 
IV 
J2998 
PEMETREXED (MADE BY TEVA) 
10 mg 
IV 
J9314 
PLAZOMICIN 
5mg 
IV 
J0291 
494 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
PLERIXAFOR - RINGERS LACTATE INFUSION 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
PLERIXAFOR 
1 mg 
SC 
J2562 
QUZYTTIR® 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J1201 
PLICAMYCIN 
2,500 mcg 
IV 
J9270 
RADICAVA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1301 
POLATUZUMAB VEDOTIN-PIIQ 
1 mg 
IV 
J9309 
RAMUCIRUMAB 
5mg 
IV 
J9308 
POLIVY® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9309 
RANIBIZUMAB 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J2778 
POLOCAINE MPF® 
10ml 
VAR 
J0670 
RANIBIZUMAB (SUSVIMO"') 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J2779 
POLOCAINEe 
10ml 
VAR 
J0670 
RANITIDINE HCL 
25mg 
IV,IM 
J2780 
PORFIMER SODIUM 
75 mg 
IV 
J9600 
RAPAMUNE® 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J7520 
PORTRAZZA@> 
1 mg 
IV 
J9295 
RAPIVAB@> 
1 mg 
IV 
J2547 
POTASSIUM CHLORIDE 
2mEq 
IV 
J3480 
RASBURICASE 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J2783 
POTELIGEO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9204 
RAVULIZUMAB-CWVZ 
10 mg 
IV 
J1303 
PRALATREXATE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9307 
REBI´ 
30mcg 
IM 
J1826 
PRALIDOXIME CHLORIDE 
up lo 1 g 
IV, IM, SC 
J2730 
REBINYN® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7203 
PREDNISOLONE ACETATE 
up to 1 ml 
IM 
J2650 
REBLOZYL@> 
0.25 mg 
SC 
J0896 
PREDNISOLONE, ORAL 
5mg 
ORAL 
J7510 
RECARBRIO® 
va rious 
IV 
J0742 
PREDNISONE, IMMEDIATE OR 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J7512 
RECLAST® 
1 mg 
IV 
J3489 
DELAYED RELEASE, ORAL 
REGADENOSON 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J2785 
PREMARIN@) 
25 mg 
IV,IM 
J1410 
RELISTOR® 
0.1 mg 
SC 
J2212 
PRIALT® 
1 mcg 
0TH 
J2278 
REMICADE® 
10 mg 
IV 
J1745 
PRIMAXIN® 
250mg 
IV,IM 
J0743 
REMIMAZOLAM 
1 mg 
IV 
J2249 
PRIVIGEN® 
500mg 
IV 
J1459 
REMODULIN® 
1 mg 
IV, SC 
J3285 
PROCAINAMIDE HCL 
upto 1 g 
IV,IM 
J2690 
RESLIZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J2786 
PROCHLORPERAZINE 
upto 10 mg 
IV,IM 
J0780 
RETAVAS. 
18.1 mg 
IV 
J2993 
PROCRIT® 
1000 IU 
IV, SC 
J0885 
RETEPLASE 
18.1 mg 
IV 
J2993 
PROFILNINE SD® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7194 
RETIFANLIMAB-DLWR 
1 mg 
IV 
J9345 
PROGESTERONE 
50mg 
IM 
J2675 
RETISERT® 
0.01 mg 
0TH 
J7311 
PROGRAF® 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J7507 
RETROVIR® 
10 mg 
IV 
J3485 
PROGRAF® 
5 mg 
IV 
J7525 
REVEFENACIN, INHALATION 
1 mcg 
INH 
J7677 
PROLASTIN-C@) 
10 mg 
IV 
J0256 
SOLUTION 
PROLEUKIN® 
single use vial 
IV 
J9015 
REZAFUNGIN 
I 
1 mg 
IV 
J0349 
PROLIA@> 
1 mg 
SC 
J0897 
REZZAYO™ 
I 
1 mg 
IV 
J0349 
PROMAZINE HCL 
up to 25 mg 
IM 
J2950 
PROMETHAZINE HCL 
up to 50 mg 
IV,IM 
J2550 
RHO(D) IMMUNE GLOBULIN, 
I 
1 dose 
IM 
J2790 
HUMAN, FULL DOSE 
package, 
300 mcg 
PROPOFOL 
10mg 
IV 
J2704 
PROPRANOLOL 
up to 1 mg 
IV 
J1800 
RHO(D) IMMUNE GLOBULIN, I
50mcg 
IM 
J2788 
HUMAN, MINI DOSE 
PROTAMINE SULFATE 
10 mg 
IV 
J2720 
RHO(D) IMMUNE GLOBULIN, 
I 
100IU 
IV,IM 
J2792 
PROTEIN C CONCENTRATE 
10IU 
IV 
J2724 
HUMAN, SOLVENT DETERGENT 
(HUMAN) 
PROTHROMBIN COMPLEX 
1 IU 
IV 
J7168 
RHO(D) IMMUNE GLOBULIN, 
100IU 
IV,IM 
J2791 
HUMAN,RHOPHYLAC® 
CONCENTRATE (HUMAN), 
KCENTRA® 
PROTIRELIN 
250 mcg 
IV 
J2725 
PROVOCHOLIN³ 
1 mg 
INH 
J7674 
PULMICORT® 
0.5 mg 
INH 
J7626 
PULMOZVME® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7639 
RHOGAM® 
1 dose 
IM 
J2790 
package, 
300 mcg 
RHOPHYLAC® 
100IU 
IV,IM 
J2791 
RIASTAP® 
1mg 
IV 
J7178 
RIBOFLAVIN 5'-PHOSPHATE, 
up to 3ml 
0TH 
J2787 
OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION 
PYRIDOXINE HCL 
100 mg 
IV, IM 
J3415 
RILONACEPT 
1 mg 
SC 
J2793 
QALSODY® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J1304 
RIMABOTULINUM TOXIN B 
100IU 
IM 
J0587 
QUINUPRISTINIDALFOPRISTIN 
500mg 
IV 
J2770 
(150/350) 
QUTENZA ® 
per sq cm 
0TH 
J7336 
RIMSO-soe 
50%, 50ml 
0TH 
J1212 
RINGERS LACTATE INFUSION 
up to 1,000 cc 
IV 
J7120 
495 
RISANKIZUMAB-RZAA - SYNVISC® 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
RISANKIZUMAB-RZAA 
1 mg 
IV, SC 
J2327 
SEVEN FACT® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7212 
RISPERDAL CONSTA® 
0.5mg 
IM 
J2794 
SEZABY™ 
1 mg 
IV 
J2561 
RISPERIOONE (PERSERIS®) 
0.5mg 
SC 
J2798 
SIGNIFOR LAR® 
1 mg 
IM 
J2502 
RISPERIOONE (RISPERDAL 
0.5 mg 
IM 
J2794 
SILTUXIMAB 
10 mg 
IV 
J2860 
CONSTA®) 
SIMPON I ARIA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1602 
RISPERIDONE (UZEDY™) 
1 mg 
SC 
J2799 
SIMULECT® 
20 mg 
IV 
J0480 
RITUXAN HYCELA® 
10 mg 
SC 
J9311 
SINCALIDE 
5 mcg 
IV 
J2805 
RITUXAN® 
10mg 
IV 
J9312 
SINCALIDE (MADE BY MAIA) 
5 mcg 
IV 
J2806 
RITUXIMAB 
10mg 
IV 
J9312 
SINUVA™ 
10 mcg 
0TH 
J7402 
RITUXIMAB AND HYALURONIDASE 
10 mg 
SC 
J9311 
SIROLIMUS 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J7520 
RIXUBIS® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7200 
SIROLIMUS PROTEIN-BOUND 
1 mg 
IV 
J9331 
ROBAXIN® 
upto 10ml 
IV,IM 
J2800 
PARTICLES 
ROCTAVIAN™ 
2 X 10'13 
IV 
J1412 
SIVEXTRO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J3090 
vector 
genomes 
ROLAPITANT 
0.5 mg 
IV 
J2797 
SKYLA® 
13.5 mg 
0TH 
J7301 
SODIUM FERRIC GLUCONATE 
12.5 mg 
IV 
J2916 
COMPLEX IN SUCROSE® 
ROLAPITANT, ORAL 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J8670 
SODIUM THIOSULFATE 
100 mg 
IV 
J0208 
ROLVEDON® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J1449 
SOURIS® 
10 mg 
IV 
J1300 
ROMIDEPSIN, LYOPHILIZED 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9319 
SOLU-CORTEF® 
up to 100 mg 
IV,IM,SC 
J1720 
ROMIDEPSIN, NON-LYOPHILIZED 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9318 
SOLU-MEDROL ® 
up to 40 mg 
IV,IM 
J2920 
ROMIPLOSTIM 
10 mcg 
SC 
J2796 
SOLU-MEDROL ® 
up to 125 mg 
IV,IM 
J2930 
ROMOSOZUMAB-AQQG 
1 mg 
SC 
J3111 
SOMATREM 
1 mg 
SC 
J2940 
ROPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE 
1 mg 
0TH 
J2795 
SOMATROPIN 
1 mg 
SC 
J2941 
ROZANOLIXIZUMAB-NOLI 
1 mg 
IV 
J9333 
RUCONEST® 
10IU 
IV 
J0596 
SOMATULINE DEPOT® 
1 mg 
SC 
J1930 
SPECTINOMYCIN HCL 
up to 2 g 
IM 
J3320 
RYBREVANT® 
2 mg 
IV 
J9061 
SPESOLIMAB-SBZO 
1 mg 
IV 
J1747 
RYLAZE™ 
0.1 mg 
IM 
J9021 
RYSTiGGO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9333 
SPEVIGO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1747 
SPINRAZA® 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J2326 
SACITUZUMAB GOVITECAN-HZIY 
2.5 mg 
IV 
J9317 
STELARA®IV 
1 mg 
IV 
J3358 
SALINE SOLUTION, HYPERTONIC 
1 ml 
IV 
J7131 
STELARA® SUBCUTANEOUS 
1 mg 
SC 
J3357 
SALINE SOLUTION, NORMAL 
infusion, 
IV 
J7030 
1,000 cc 
STREPTOKINASE 
250,000 IU 
IV 
J2995 
SALINE SOLUTION, NORMAL 
infusion, 
IV 
J7050 
STREPTOMYCIN 
up to 1 g 
IM 
J3000 
250cc 
STREPTOZOCIN 
1 g 
IV 
J9320 
SALINE SOLUTION, NORMAL 
500 ml = 1 unit 
IV 
J7042 
SUBLIMAZE® 
0.1 mg 
IV,IM 
J3010 
DEXTROSE 5% 
SUCCINYLCHOLINE CHLORIDE 
upto 20 mg 
IV,IM 
J0330 
SALINE SOLUTION, STERILE 
500 ml = 1 unit 
IV 
J7040 
SANDIMMUNE® 
100 mg 
ORAL 
J7502 
SANDIMMUNE® 
25 mg 
ORAL 
J7515 
SUMATRIPTAN SUCCINATE 
6mg 
SC 
J3030 
SUNLENCA® 
1 mg 
SC 
J1961 
SUPARTZ® 
dose 
0TH 
J7321 
SANDIMMUNE® 
250 mg 
IV 
J7516 
SANDOSTATIN LAR DEPOT® 
1 mg 
IM 
J2353 
SANDOSTATIN® 
25mcg 
IV,SC 
J2354 
SARCLISA® 
10 mg 
IV 
J9227 
SARGRAMOSTIM (GM-CSF) 
50mcg 
IV 
J2820 
SCENESSE® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7352 
SEBELIPASE ALFA 
1 mg 
IV 
J2840 
SECRETIN, SYNTHETIC, HUMAN 
1 mcg 
IV 
J2850 
SEGESTERONE ACETATE AND 
each 
0TH 
J7294 
ETHINYL ESTRADIOL; YEARLY 
SUPPRELIN LA® 
10 mcg 
0TH 
J1675 
SUPPRELIN LA® 
50 mg 
0TH 
J9226 
SUSTOL® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J1627 
SUSVIMO™ 
0.1 mg 
0TH 
J2779 
SUTIMLIMAB-JOME 
10 mg 
IV 
J1302 
SYLVANT® 
10 mg 
IV 
J2860 
SYNERCID® 
500 mg 
IV 
J2770 
SYNOJOYNT® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7331 
SYNRIBO® 
0.01 mg 
SC 
J9262 
VAGINAL SYSTEM 
SYNVISC® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7325 
496 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
SYNVISC-ONE® - TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
SYNVISC-ONE® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7325 
THIOTEPA 
15 mg 
IV 
J9340 
TACROLIMUS, ORAL, EXTENDED 
0.1 mg 
ORAL 
J7508 
RELEASE, ASTAGRAF XL® 
TACROLIMUS, ORAL, EXTENDED 
0.25 mg 
ORAL 
J7503 
RELEASE, ENVARSUS XR® 
THROMBATE 111® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7197 
THYMOGLOBULIN® 
25 mg 
IV 
J7511 
THYROGEN® 
0.9 mg 
IM,SC 
J3240 
TACROLIMUS, ORAL, IMMEDIATE 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J7507 
THYROTROPIN ALFA 
0.9mg 
IM,SC 
J3240 
RELEASE 
TICE BCG® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J9030 
TACROLIMUS, PARENTERAL 
5 mg 
IV 
J7525 
TIGAN® 
up to 200 mg 
IM 
J3250 
TAFASITAMAB-CXIX 
2mg 
IV 
J9349 
TIGECYCLINE 
1 mg 
IV 
J3243 
TAGRAXOFUSP-ERZS 
10 mcg 
IV 
J9269 
TIGECYCLINE (MADE BY 
1 mg 
IV 
J3244 
TAKHZYRO® 
1 mg 
SC 
J0593 
ACCORD) 
TALIGLUCERACE ALFA 
10IU 
IV 
J3060 
TILDRAKIZUMAB-ASMN 
1 mg 
SC 
J3245 
TALIMOGENE LAHERPAREPVEC 
1 million PFU 
0TH 
J9325 
TINZAPARIN SODIUM 
1000IU 
SC 
J1655 
TAXOTERE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9171 
TIROFIBAN HCL 
0.25 mg 
IV, IM 
J3246 
TAZICEF® 
500 mg 
IV, IM 
J0713 
TISOTUMAB VEDOTIN-TFTV 
1 mg 
IV 
J9273 
TBO-FILGRASTIM 
1 mcg 
SC 
J1447 
TNKASE® 
1 mg 
IV 
J3101 
TEBENTAFUSP-TEBN 
1 microgram 
IV 
J9274 
TOBI® 
300mg 
INH 
J7682 
TECENTRIQ™ 
10 mg 
IV 
J9022 
TOBRAMYCIN SULFATE 
up to 80 mg 
IV,IM 
J3260 
TECLISTAMAB-CQYV 
0.5 mg 
SC 
J9380 
TECVAYLI® 
0.5 mg 
SC 
J9380 
TEDIZOLID PHOSPHATE 
1 mg 
IV 
J3090 
TOBRAMYCIN, UNIT DOSE, 
300 mg 
INH 
J7685 
COMPOUNDED 
TOBRAMYCIN, UNIT DOSE, NON-
300 mg 
INH 
J7682 
COMPOUNDED 
TEFLARO® 
10 mg 
IV 
J0712 
TOCILIZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J3262 
TELAVANCIN 
10 mg 
IV 
J3095 
TEMODAR® 
5 mg 
ORAL 
J8700 
TEMODAR® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9328 
TOFERSEN 
1 mg 
0TH 
J1304 
TOLAZOLINE HCL 
upto 25 mg 
IV 
J2670 
TOPOTECAN 
0.25 mg 
ORAL 
J8705 
TEMOZOLOMIDE 
5 mg 
ORAL 
J8700 
TOPOTECAN 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9351 
TEMOZOLOMIDE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9328 
TORISEL® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9330 
TEMSIROLIMUS 
1 mg 
IV 
J9330 
TENECTEPLASE 
1 mg 
IV 
J3101 
TEPEZZA® 
10 mg 
IV 
J3241 
TORSEMIDE 
10 mg/ml 
IV 
J3265 
TRABECTEDIN 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J9352 
TRASTUZUMAB AND 
10mg 
SC 
J9356 
TEPLIZUMAB-MZWV 
5 mcg 
IV 
J9381 
HYALURONIDASE-OYSK 
TEPROTUMUMAB-TRBW 
10mg 
IV 
J3241 
TRASTUZUMAB,EXCLUDES 
10mg 
IV 
J9355 
TERBUTALINE SULFATE 
up to 1 mg 
IV, SC 
J3105 
BIOSIMILAR 
TERBUTALINE SULFATE, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7680 
TREANDA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9033 
CONCENTRATED FORM, 
COMPOUNDED 
TRELSTAR DEPOT® 
3.75 mg 
IM 
J3315 
TERBUTALINE SULFATE, UNIT 
1 mg 
INH 
J7681 
DOSE FORM,COMPOUNDED 
TREMELIMUMAB-ACTL 
1 mg 
IV 
J9347 
TREMFYA® 
1 mg 
SC 
J1628 
TERIPARATIDE 
10 mcg 
SC 
J3110 
TREPROSTINIL 
1 mg 
IV,SC 
J3285 
TESTOSTERONE CYPIONATE 
1 mg 
IM 
J1071 
TREPROSTNIL, UNIT DOSE, 
1.74 mg 
INH 
J7686 
COMPOUND 
TESTOSTERONE ENANTHATE 
1 mg 
IM 
J3121 
TRETTEN® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7181 
TESTOSTERONE UNDECANOATE 
1 mg 
IM 
J3145 
TETANUS IMMUNE GLOBULIN, 
up to 250 IU 
IM 
J1670 
HUMAN 
TETRACYCLINE 
up to 250 mg 
IV,IM 
J0120 
TEZEPELUMAB-EKKO 
1 mg 
SC 
J2356 
THEOPHYLLINE 
40mg 
IV 
J2810 
TREXALL® 
2.5mg 
ORAL 
J8610 
TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE 
1 mg 
0TH 
J3299 
(XIPERE®) 
TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE XR 
1 mg 
VAR 
J3304 
TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE, 
10mg 
VAR 
J3301 
NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFIED 
THIAMINE HCL 
100mg 
IV,IM 
J3411 
TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE, 
1 mg 
VAR 
J3300 
THIETHYLPERAZINE MALEATE 
upto 10mg 
IV,IM 
J3280 
PRESERVATIVE FREE 
497 
TRIAMCINOLONE DIACETATE - VONVENDI® 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
TRIAMCINOLONE DIACETATE 
5 mg 
IM 
J3302 
TRIAMCINOLONE HEXACETONIDE 
5mg 
IV 
J3303 
VALOCTOCOGENE 
2 X 10'13 
IV 
J1412 
ROXAPARVOVEC-RVOX 
vector 
genomes 
TRIAMCINOLONE, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7683 
VALRUBICIN, INTRAVESICAL 
200 mg 
0TH 
J9357 
CONCENTRATED FORM, 
COMPOUNDED 
VALSTAR® 
200 mg 
0TH 
J9357 
TRIAMCINOLONE, UNIT DOSE, 
1 mg 
INH 
J7684 
VANCOMYCIN HCL 
500 mg 
IV, IM 
J3370 
COMPOUNDED 
VANCOMYCIN HCL (MADE BY 
500 mg 
IV,IM 
J3371 
TRIFERIC AVNU® 
0.1 mg of iron 
IV 
J1445 
MYLAN) 
TRIFERIC® 
0.1 mg of iron 
IV 
J1443 
TRIFLUPROMAZINE HCL 
up to 20 mg 
IV,IM 
J3400 
VANCOMYCIN HCL (MADE BY 
500mg 
IV,IM 
J3372 
XELLIA) 
VANTAS® 
50 mg 
0TH 
J9225 
TRILACICLIB 
1 mg 
IV 
J1448 
VARUBI® 
1 mg 
ORAL 
J8670 
TRILURON® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7332 
VASOPRESSIN 
1 unit 
IV 
J2598 
TRIMETHOBENZAMIDE HCL 
up to 200 mg 
IM 
J3250 
VASOPRESSIN (MADE BY 
1 unit 
IV 
J2599 
TRIMETREXATE GLUCURONATE 
25 mg 
IV 
J3305 
AMERICAN REGENT) 
TRIPTODUR® 
3.75 mg 
IM 
J3316 
VECTIBIX® 
10mg 
IV 
J9303 
TRIPTORELIN PAMOATE 
3.75 mg 
IM 
J3315 
VEDOLIZUMAB 
1 mg 
IV 
J3380 
TRIPTORELIN, EXTENDED-
3.75 mg 
IM 
J3316 
VELAGLUCERASE ALFA 
100IU 
IV 
J3385 
RELEASE 
VELMANASE ALFA-TYCV 
1 mg 
IV 
J0217 
TRISENOX® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9017 
VENOFER® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1756 
TRIVISC® 
1 mg 
0TH 
J7329 
VERTEPORFIN 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J3396 
TRODELVY® 
2.5 mg 
IV 
J9317 
VESTRONIDASE ALFA-VJBK 
1 mg 
IV 
J3397 
TROGARZO® 
10mg 
IV 
J1746 
VFEND® 
10mg 
IV 
J3465 
TRUVADA® 
various 
ORAL 
J0750 
VIBATIV® 
10mg 
IV 
J3095 
TYSABRI® 
1 mg 
IV 
J2323 
VIDAZA® 
1 mg 
IV, SC 
J9025 
TYVASO® 
1.74 mg 
INH 
J7686 
VILTEPSO® 
10mg 
IV 
J1427 
TZIELD® 
5mcg 
IV 
J9381 
VILTOLARSEN 
10mg 
IV 
J1427 
UBLITUXIMAB-XIIY 
1 mg 
IV 
J2329 
VIMIZIM® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1322 
ULTOMIRIS® 
10 mg 
IV 
J1303 
VINBLASTINE SULFATE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9360 
UNASYN® 
1.5 g 
IV,IM 
J0295 
VINCRISTINE SULFATE 
1 mg 
IV 
J9370 
UNCLASSIFIED BIOLOGICS 
dose 
VAR 
J3590 
VINCRISTINE SULFATE LIPOSOME 
1 mg 
IV 
J9371 
UNCLASSIFIED DRUG OR 
dose 
IV 
J3591 
BIOLOGICAL USED FOR ESRD ON 
DIALYSIS 
VINORELBINE TARTRATE 
10mg 
IV 
J9390 
VISCO-3® 
dose 
0TH 
J7321 
UNCLASSIFIED DRUGS 
J3490 
VISUDYNE® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J3396 
UNITUXIN® 
0.1 mg 
IV 
J1246 
VITAMIN B1 
100 mg 
IV,IM 
J3411 
UNSPECIFIED DRUG 
dose 
INH 
J3535 
ADMINISTERED THROUGH A 
VITAMIN B-12, CYANOCOBALAMIN 
up to 
IM,SC 
J3420 
1,000 mcg 
METERED DOSE INHALER 
VITAMIN B17 
dose 
VAR 
J3570 
UNSPECIFIED VACCINE, NASAL 
dose 
INH 
J3530 
VITAMIN K, PHYTONADIONE 
1 mg 
IV, IM,SC 
J3430 
INHALATION 
VITRASE® 
up to 999 IU 
SC 
J3471 
UPLIZNA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1823 
VITRASE® 
1000 IU 
SC 
J3472 
UREA 
up to 40 g 
IV 
J3350 
VIVAGLOBIN® 
100mg 
IV 
J1562 
UROFOLLITROPIN 
75IU 
SC 
J3355 
VIVIMUSTA® 
1 mg 
IV 
J9056 
UROKINASE 
5,000 IU vial 
IV 
J3364 
VIVITROL® 
1 mg 
IM 
J2315 
UROKINASE 
250,000 IU vial 
IV 
J3365 
VON WILLEBRAND FACTOR 
1 IU 
IV 
J7179 
USTEKINUMAB IV 
1 mg 
IV 
J3358 
(RECOMBINANT), VONVENDI® 
USTEKINUMAB SUBCUTANEOUS 
1 mg 
SC 
J3357 
UZEDY™ 
1 mg 
SC 
J2799 
VABOMERE® 
10mg/10mg 
IV 
J2186 
VON WILLEBRAND FACTOR 
1 IU 
IV 
J7183 
COMPLEX (HUMAN), WILATE® 
VON WILLEBRAND FACTOR 
1 IU 
IV 
J7187 
COMPLEX, HUMATE-P® 
VACCINE, NASAL INHALATION 
dose 
INH 
J3530 
VONVENDI® 
1 IU 
IV 
J7179 
498 
Appendix A Table of Drugs and Biologicals 
Drug Name 
VORETIGENE NEPARVOVEC-RZYL 
VORICONAZOLE 
VPRIV® 
VUTRISIRAN 
VYEPTI® 
VYJUVEK™ 
VYONDYS 53® 
VYXEOS® 
WILATE® 
XELODA® 
XELODA® 
XEMBIFV® 
XENLETA® 
XENPOZYME® 
XEOMIN® 
XERAVA® 
XGEVA® 
XIAFLEX® 
XIPERE® 
XOLAIR® 
XOPENEX® 
XOPENEX® 
XYNTHA® 
YERVOV® 
YONDELIS® 
YUPELRI® 
YUTIO® 
ZALTRAP® 
ZANOSAR® 
ZANTAC® 
ZEMAIRA® 
ZEMDRI® 
ZEMPLAR® 
ZEPZELCA® 
ZERBAXA® 
ZICONOTIDE 
ZIDOVUDINE 
ZILRETTA® 
ZIMHI™ 
ZINACEF® 
ZINPLAVA® 
ZIPRASIDONE MESYLATE 
ZITHROMAX® 
ZIV-AFLIBERCEPT 
ZOFRAN® 
Unit Per 
1 billion vector 
genomes 
10 mg 
100IU 
1 mg 
1 mg 
5 x 10'9 pful 
ml vector 
genomes, per 
0.1 ml 
10 mg 
1 mg/2.27 mg 
1 IU 
150 mg 
500 mg 
100mg 
1 mg 
1 mg 
1 IU 
1 mg 
1 mg 
0.01 mg 
1 mg 
5mg 
0.5 mg 
0.5 mg 
1 IU 
1 mg 
0.1 mg 
1 mcg 
0.01 mg 
1 mg 
1 g 
25 mg 
10 mg 
5 mg 
1 mcg 
0.1 mg 
50 mg/25 mg 
1 mcg 
10 mg 
1 mg 
1 mg 
750 mg 
10mg 
10mg 
500mg 
1 mg 
1 mg 
VORETIGENE NEPARVOVEC-RZYL - ZYVOX® 
Route 
Code 
Drug Name 
Unit Per 
Route 
Code 
0TH 
J3398 
ZOLADEX® 
3.6 mg 
0TH 
J9202 
IV 
J3465 
ZOLEDRONIC ACID 
1 mg 
IV 
J3489 
ZOLGENSMA® 
up to 5 
IV 
J3399 
IV 
J3385 
x1015 vector 
SC 
J0225 
genomes 
IV 
J3032 
ZORTRESS® 
0.25 mg 
ORAL 
J7527 
Topical 
J3401 
ZULRESSO® 
1 mg 
IV 
J1632 
2YNYZ™ 
1 mg 
IV 
J9345 
ZYPREXA® 
1 mg 
IM 
J2358 
IV 
J1429 
ZYVOX® 
200 mg 
IV 
J2020 
IV 
J9153 
IV 
J7183 
ORAL 
J8520 
ORAL 
J8521 
SC 
J1558 
IV 
J0691 
IV 
J0218 
IM 
J0588 
IV 
J0122 
SC 
J0897 
0TH 
J0775 
0TH 
J3299 
SC 
J2357 
INH 
J7612 
INH 
J7614 
IV 
J7185 
IV 
J9228 
IV 
J9352 
INH 
J7677 
0TH 
J7314 
IV 
J9400 
IV 
J9320 
IV,IM 
J2780 
IV 
J0256 
IV 
J0291 
IV,IM 
J2501 
IV 
J9223 
IV 
J0695 
0TH 
J2278 
IV 
J3485 
VAR 
J3304 
IM 
J2311 
IV,IM 
J0697 
IV 
J0565 
IM 
J3486 
IV 
J0456 
IV 
J9400 
IV 
J2405 
499 
NOTES 
Appendix B 
HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
A1 
Dressing for one wound 
Definition: Append modifier A 1 to identify a surgical dressing that a provider or a surgical supplier uses for dressing of
a single wound. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a particular surgical supply that the provider uses is a dressing on a wound. It 
also indicates the number of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, or the number of wounds for which a 
durable medical equipment supplier is providing a supply. Use A 1 with the appropriate HCPCS code when the provider 
uses a surgical supply for dressing of one wound. 
The modifier number corresponds to the number of wounds a surgical dressing is applied to, meaning A 1 is for one 
wound, A2 is for two wounds, A3 for three wounds and so on. The modifier a provider uses corresponds to the number 
of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, not the total number of wounds that the provider treats. 
Tips: It is important to use modifier A 1 to A9 appropriately with Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or 
HCPCS codes according to the number of surgical or debrided wounds for which the supplier is providing the surgical 
dressing. Incorrect use may lead to denial or underpayment. 
A2 
Dressing for two wounds 
Definition: Append modifier A2 to identify a surgical dressing that a provider or a surgical supplier uses for dressing of 
two wounds. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a particular surgical supply that the provider uses is a dressing on a wound. It 
also indicates the number of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, or the number of wounds for which a 
durable medical equipment supplier is providing a supply. Use A2 with the appropriate HCPCS code when the provider 
uses a surgical supply for dressing of two wounds. 
The modifier number corresponds to the number of wounds a surgical dressing is applied to, meaning A 1 is for one 
wound, A2 is for two wounds, A3 for three wounds and so on. The modifier a provider uses corresponds to the number 
of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, not the total number of wounds that the provider treats. 
Tips: It is important to use modifier A 1 to A9 appropriately with HCPCS codes according to the number of surgical or 
debrided wounds for which the supplier is providing the dressing. Incorrect use may lead to denial or underpayment. 
A3 
Dressing for three wounds 
Definition: Append modifier A3 to identify a surgical dressing that a provider or a surgical supplier uses for dressing of 
three wounds. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a particular surgical supply that the provider uses is a dressing on a wound. It 
also indicates the number of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, or the number of wounds for which a 
durable medical equipment supplier is providing a supply. Use A3 with the appropriate HCPCS code when the provider 
uses a surgical supply for dressing of three wounds. 
The modifier number corresponds to the number of wounds a surgical dressing is applied to, meaning A 1 is for one 
wound, A2 is for two wounds, A3 for three wounds and so on. The modifier a provider uses corresponds to the number 
of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, not the total number of wounds that the provider treats. 
Tips: It is important to use modifier A 1 to A9 appropriately with HCPCS codes according to the number of surgical or 
debrided wounds for which the supplier is providing the dressing. Incorrect use may lead to denial or underpayment. 
A4 
Dressing for four wounds 
Definition: Append modifier A4 to identify a surgical dressing that a provider or a surgical supplier uses for dressing of 
four wounds. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a particular surgical supply that the provider uses is a dressing on a wound. It 
also indicates the number of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, or the number of wounds for which a 
durable medical equipment supplier is providing a supply. Use A4 with the appropriate HCPCS code when the provider 
uses a surgical supply for dressing of four wounds. 
The modifier number corresponds to the number of wounds a surgical dressing is applied to, meaning A 1 is for one 
wound, A2 is for two wounds, A3 for three wounds and so on. The modifier a provider uses corresponds to the number 
of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, not the total number of wounds that the provider treats. 
Tips: It is important to use modifier A 1 to A9 appropriately with HCPCS codes according to the number of surgical or 
debrided wounds for which the supplier is providing the dressing. Incorrect use may lead to denial or underpayment. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
501 
AS-AS 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
AS 
Dressing for five wounds 
Definition: Append modifier A5 to identify a surgical dressing that a provider or a surgical supplier uses for dressing of
five wounds. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a particular surgical supply that the provider uses is a dressing on a wound. It 
also indicates the number of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, or the number of wounds for which a 
durable medical equipment supplier is providing a supply. Use A5 with the appropriate HCPCS code when the provider 
uses a surgical supply for dressing of five wounds. 
The modifier number corresponds to the number of wounds a surgical dressing is applied to, meaning A 1 is for one 
wound, A2 is for two wounds, A3 for three wounds and so on. The modifier a provider uses corresponds to the number 
of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, not the total number of wounds that the provider treats. 
Tips: It is important to use modifier A 1 to A9 appropriately with HCPCS codes according to the number of surgical or 
debrided wounds for which the supplier is providing the dressing. Incorrect use may lead to denial or underpayment. 
A6 
Dressing for six wounds 
Definition: Append modifier A6 to identify a surgical dressing that a provider or a surgical supplier uses for dressing of 
six wounds. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a particular surgical supply that the provider uses is a dressing on a wound. It 
also indicates the number of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, or the number of wounds for which a 
durable medical equipment supplier is providing a supply. Use A6 with the appropriate HCPCS code when the provider 
uses a surgical supply for dressing of six wounds. 
The modifier number corresponds to the number of wounds a surgical dressing is applied to, meaning A 1 is for one 
wound, A2 is for two wounds, A3 for three wounds and so on. The modifier a provider uses corresponds to the number 
of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, not the total number of wounds that the provider treats. 
Tips: II is important to use modifier A 1 to A9 appropriately with HCPCS codes according to the number of surgical or 
debrided wounds for which the supplier is providing the dressing. Incorrect use may lead to denial or underpayment. 
A7 
Dressing for seven wounds 
Definition: Append modifier A7 to identify a surgical dressing that a provider or a surgical supplier uses for dressing of 
seven wounds. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a particular surgical supply that the provider uses is a dressing on a wound. It 
also indicates the number of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, or the number of wounds for which a 
durable medical equipment supplier is providing a supply. Use A7 with the appropriate HCPCS code when the provider 
uses a surgical supply for dressing of seven wounds. 
The modifier number corresponds to the number of wounds a surgical dressing is applied to, meaning A 1 is for one 
wound, A2 is for two wounds, A3 for three wounds and so on. The modifier a provider uses corresponds to the number 
of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, not the total number of wounds that the provider treats. 
Tips: It is important to use modifier A 1 to A9 appropriately with HCPCS codes according to the number of surgical or 
debrided wounds for which the supplier is providing the dressing. Incorrect use may lead to denial or underpayment. 
AS 
Dressing for eight wounds 
Definition: Append modifier A8 to identify a surgical dressing that a provider or a surgical supplier uses for dressing of 
eight wounds. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a particular surgical supply that the provider uses is a dressing on a wound. It 
also indicates the number of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, or the number of wounds for which a 
durable medical equipment supplier is providing a supply. Use A8 with the appropriate HCPCS code when the provider 
uses a surgical supply for dressing of eight wounds. 
The modifier number corresponds to the number of wounds a surgical dressing is applied to, meaning A 1 is for one 
wound, A2 is for two wounds, A3 for three wounds and so on. The modifier a provider uses corresponds to the number 
of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, not the total number of wounds that the provider treats. 
Tips: It is important to use modifier A 1 to A9 appropriately with HCPCS codes according to the number of surgical or 
debrided wounds for which the supplier is providing the dressing. Incorrect use may lead to denial or underpayment. 
502 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
A9-AF 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
A9 
Dressing for nine or more wounds 
Definition: Append modifier A9 to identify a surgical dressing that a provider or a surgical supplier uses for dressing of 
nine or more wounds. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a particular surgical supply that the provider uses is a dressing on a wound. It 
also indicates the number of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, or the number of wounds for which a 
durable medical equipment supplier is providing a supply. Use A9 with the appropriate HCPCS code when the provider 
uses a surgical supply for dressing of nine or more wounds. 
The modifier number corresponds to the number of wounds a surgical dressing is applied to, meaning A 1 is for one 
wound, A2 is for two wounds, A3 for three wounds and so on. The modifier a provider uses corresponds to the number 
of wounds on which the provider is using the dressing, not the total number of wounds that the provider treats. 
Tips: It is important to use modifier A 1 to A9 appropriately with HCPCS codes according to the number of surgical or 
debrided wounds for which the supplier is providing the dressing. Incorrect use may lead to denial or underpayment. 
AA 
Anesthesia services performed personally by anesthesiologist 
Definition: Append this modifier to anesthesia service codes when the provider personally performs the entire 
anesthesia service. 
Explanation: This modifier documents the service of the provider who personally provides the anesthesia during the 
entire surgical procedure. This modifier is also applicable when the provider is continuously supervising a student 
anesthetist during the procedure or when the procedure involves the provider with one resident. 
To report modifier AA, the provider continuously monitors a single case. The provider must remain physically present in 
the operating room during the entire procedure when billing the personally performed modifier AA. 
Tips: If the provider does not continuously monitor the single case, use another appropriate modifier such as AD, 
Medical supervision by a physician: more than four concurrent anesthesia procedures. 
AB 
Audiology service furnished personally by an audiologist without a physician/npp order for non-acute hearing 
assessment unrelated to disequilibrium, or hearing aids, or examinations for the purpose of prescribing, 
fitting, or changing hearing aids; service may be performed once every 12 months, per beneficiary 
Definition: Append modifier AB to the code for a nonacute hearing assessment furnished by an audiologist without an 
order. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to the code for an audiology service that the audiologist provides personally without 
an order from a treating physician or nonphysician practitioner (NPP). The service should be a nonacute hearing 
assessment not related to disequilibrium (imbalance) or hearing aid services. The patient may have the service with this 
modifier appended once per 12 months. 
AD 
Medical supervision by a physician: more than four concurrent anesthesia procedures 
Definition: An anesthesiologist provides medical supervision for more than four procedures that overlap each other. 
Explanation: When a physician performs medical supervision of more than four concurrent procedures with anesthesia 
services by others, such as CRNAs, the physician appends modifier AD. Concurrent means that there is some degree 
of overlap in the procedures. Depending on payer rules, one minute of overlap may be enough for procedures to be 
considered concurrent. 
Tips: Check payer rules regarding use of modifier AD. The payer may recognize an additional time unit if the physician 
can document she was present at induction for general anesthesia. 
AE 
Registered dietician 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate the services of a nutrition professional. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates the services of a nutrition professional or a registered dietician on claims with 
medical nutrition therapy codes such as 97802 to 97804, and G0270 to G0271. This code may also be applicable to 
Diabetes outpatient self management training services, or DSMT, reportable under G0108 individual, per 30 minutes 
and G0109, group session, 2 or more, per 30 minutes. 
Tips: Use this modifier to represent the professional services of a nutrition professional or a registered dietician in a 
critical access hospital, or CAH. An all inclusive rate payment methodology applies in the case of a CAH. 
AF 
Specialty physician 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate the services of a specialty physician in a physician scarcity area. 
Explanation: Modifier AF is a Medicare use only modifier that represents the services of a specialty physician in a 
physician scarcity area, or a geographic area with a shortage of primary care doctors or specialists available to the 
Medicare population in that area. Use of this modifier provides for a quarterly bonus payment along with claim payment. 
Behavioral Medicine, Oncology, Endocrinology, Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Orthopedics, are some examples of 
specialty physicians. 
Tips: Use this modifier to represent professional services of a specialty physician in a physician scarcity area in a
critical access hospital. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
503 
AG-AM 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
AG 
Primary physician 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate the services of a primary care physician in a physician scarcity area. 
Explanation: Modifier AG is a Medicare use only modifier that represents the services of a primary care physician in 
a physician scarcity area, or a geographic area with a shortage of primary care doctors or specialists available to the 
Medicare population in that area. Use of this modifier provides for a quarterly bonus payment along with claim payment. 
A primary care physician is typically defined as a general practitioner, family practice practitioner, general internist, 
pediatrician, obstetrician, or gynecologist. 
Tips: Use this modifier to represent professional services of a primary physician in a physician scarcity area in a critical 
access hospital. 
AH 
Clinical psychologist 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate the services of a clinical psychologist. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates the services the provider is reporting are for a qualified clinical psychologist for 
the psychiatric therapeutic procedures that he performs for a patient in a facility. The modifier indicates that a clinical 
psychologist, who qualifies as per Medicare guidelines to provide these services, is performing the service the facility is 
reporting under the CPT® code for the procedure. 
Tips: When the facility uses this modifier with any CPT® code, it lets the payer know that a qualified clinical 
psychologist handled the services and reimbursement can be made as per Medicare payment guidelines. If you fail to 
append the right modifier to the CPT® code, ii may lead to incorrect payments and fraudulent claims. 
Al 
Principal physician of record 
Definition: Append this modifier to the initial hospital and nursing home visit codes to show that the provider is 
responsible for the overall care of the patient. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates the service by the admitting or attending provider who oversees the patient's care, 
as distinct from other providers who may furnish specialty care. The principal provider of record shall append modifier 
Al to the initial visit code. The primary purpose of this modifier is to identify the principal provider of record on the initial 
hospital and nursing home visit codes. 
Tips: Remember that modifier Al is for inpatient use only, not for outpatient evaluation and management, or 
E/M, codes. 
Modifier Al is informational only and does not impact the payment. 
AJ 
Clinical social worker 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate the services of a clinical social worker. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates the services of a qualified clinical social worker for therapeutic procedures that he 
performs in the facility. The modifier indicates that a clinical social worker, who qualifies as per Medicare guidelines to 
provide these services, is performing the service the facility is reporting under the CPT® code for the procedure. 
Tips: When the facility uses this modifier with any CPT® code, it lets the payer know that a qualified clinical social 
worker handled the services and reimbursement can be made as per CMS payment guidelines. If you fail to append the 
right modifier to the CPT® code, it may lead to incorrect payments and fraudulent claims. 
AK 
Non participating physician 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate the services of a non participating physician. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates the services of a non participating provider who chooses not to participate in the 
Medicare fee schedule reimbursement, meaning he does not accept the Medicare approved amount as full payment for 
covered service. Medicare does not reimburse non participating physicians directly. Instead Medicare reimburses the 
patient for the allowable costs. The provider has to arrange for payment directly from the patient. 
Tips: Use this modifier to represent the services of a non participating physician in a critical access hospital. 
AM 
Physician, team member service 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate the services of a member of a provider's team, usually a physician assistant 
who is part of the provider's team. 
Explanation: Append modifier AM if a physician assistant or other team member of the provider's team renders
service. Usually, the supervising provider bills these services and the provider uses this modifier to indicate that his 
team member performs the service. 
Tips: This modifier is informational only and should not impact reimbursement. It just identifies that during the 
procedure the provider is not rendering the actual service but he is supervising the service. 
504 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
AO-AT 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
AO 
Alternate payment method declined by provider of service 
Definition: Append this modifier to each line of service on a claim if the provider prefers to decline participation in an 
alternate payment method by the payer. 
Explanation: Modifier AO indicates that the provider declines an alternate payment methodology and wants to continue 
with the original method of reimbursement. Use this modifier if you do not prefer to participate in bundled payment 
program for example for a care improvement initiative under the Affordable care act and you would continue to receive 
the reimbursement according to regular fee for service payment rules. 
Tips: If the provider does not report the AO modifier on each line of service on the claim then the provider receives the 
claim back as unprocessable with instruction to rebill the services on separate claims. 
AP 
Determination of refractive state was not performed in the course of diagnostic ophthalmological examination 
Definition: Append this modifier to eye examination codes to indicate that reimbursement of the code does not 
include a fee for determination of a refractive state, or the process that the provider performs to determine the patient's 
refractive error and need for glasses or contact lenses. 
Explanation: This is an informational modifier that indicates that determination of a refractive state was not part of 
the work effort that the provider puts in diagnostic ophthalmological examination and the overall value of the eye 
examination codes such as 92004, 92014, 92002, 92012, do not include the value of refraction. 
Tips: Modifier AP became unnecessary when the values for the eye exam codes no longer included payment for 
refraction. If an ophthalmologist performed an eye exam without refraction, he would append modifier AP to show that 
the fee did not include refraction. CPT® gave refraction its own code, 92015, Determination of refractive state, which 
Medicare will not reimburse for, and excluded that work from the value of the eye exam codes. Since Medicare does 
not consider refraction an intrinsic part of any code, modifier AP is no longer necessary. 
AQ 
Physician providing a service in an unlisted health professional shortage area (HPSA) 
Definition: Append this modifier to represent the services that the provider renders in zip code areas that do not fall 
within a listed health professional shortage area, or HPSA. 
Explanation: Modifier AQ represents the provider's service in a health professional shortage area that is not listed in 
Medicare's annual file for automated HPSA bonus payment. CMS posts a file annually of ZIP codes, within which the 
HPSA bonus payment is made automatically. An unlisted health professional shortage area includes zip code areas 
that fall partially within a full county HPSA but is not considered to be in that county based on the United States Postal 
Service dominance decision; is a zip code area that falls partially within a non full county HPSA; is a zip code area that 
was not included in the automated file of HPSA areas based on the date the file was run, and zip code areas that do not 
fall entirely in a designated full county HPSA. 
Tips: Do not use this modifier if the provider does not render the service in the health professional shortage area. 
Do not use this modifier with codes that represent only a technical component. 
AR 
Physician provider services in a physician scarcity area 
Definition: Append this modifier to represent the services of a physician provider in a physician scarcity area. 
Explanation: Modifier AR represents the services that a provider performs in a physician scarcity area, or an area 
which has a shortage of health professionals. It was a previously effective code until June of 2008 and was used by the 
provider to obtain a physician scarcity area bonus payment. 
Tips: Use this modifier only for dates of service January 1, 2005, through June 30, 2008. 
AS 
Physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist services for assistant at surgery 
Definition: Append this modifier to represent the services of a healthcare professional acting as an assistant during a 
surgery. 
Explanation: Healthcare professionals like a physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist who 
acts as an assistant during a surgery reports the identical procedure as the primary surgeon with a modifier AS. These 
professionals report these services under a surgeons' provider number. The main surgeon should clearly specify in the 
medical record the medical necessity for utilizing the service of an assistant. 
AT 
Acute treatment (this modifier should be used when reporting service 98940, 98941, 98942) 
Definition: Append this modifier with specific chiropractic manipulative treatment, or CMT, spinal codes when the 
provider performs treatment of the acute or chronic spinal subluxation. 
Explanation: The provider uses modifier AT with chiropractic manipulative treatment codes such as 98940 to 98942 to 
indicate the acute or active nature of treatment. The patient's medical record should also support the active nature of 
chiropractic treatment in that the record should reflect the anticipated result of the chiropractic manipulation is either an 
improvement in, or a complete arrest of the progression, of the patient's condition. 
• 
Tips: This modifier is not applicable when the medical records suggest that the provider is performing a maintenance 
chiropractic service to maintain or further prevent deterioration of a chronic condition. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
505 
AU-AY 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
AU 
Item furnished in conjunction with a urological, ostomy, or tracheostomy supply 
Definition: Append this modifier with Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS codes that identify 
the supply associated with urological, ostomy, or tracheostomy procedures. 
Explanation: Use this modifier with Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS codes that a provider 
reports for supplies associated with a urological procedure, or those for the male and female urinary tract system and 
the male reproductive organs; an ostomy, or a surgically created opening in a patient's body for the discharge of body 
wastes; or for a tracheostomy, an opening made in the patient's neck into the trachea, or windpipe to create an airway 
or to remove secretions from the patient's lungs. 
Tips: Use modifier AU with HCPCS codes such as A4217; Sterile water or saline, 500 ml, A4450; Surgical trays, A4452; 
Tape, waterproof, per 18 square inches, and A5120; Skin barrier, wipes or swabs, each. 
AV 
Item furnished in conjunction with a prosthetic device, prosthetic or orthotic 
Definition: Append this modifier with Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS codes that identify 
the supply associated with a prosthetic device, prosthetic, or orthotic. 
Explanation: Use this modifier with Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS codes that a provider 
reports for supplies associated with a prosthetic device, prosthetic or orthotic, meaning an artificial or manmade 
replacement for a body part or a supportive device. 
Tips: Use modifier AV with HCPCS codes such as: A4450; Tape, non-waterproof, per 18 square inches, A4452; Tape, 
waterproof, per 18 square inches and A5120; Skin barrier, wipes or swabs, each. 
Providers can refer to the Medicare Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics or Orthotics and Supplies Fee Schedule 
on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, website to determine which procedures are reportable 
with modifier AV. Allowable procedure codes for modifier AV appear on the file with modifier AV such as A4450 AV. 
AW 
Item furnished in conjunction with a surgical dressing 
Definition: Append this modifier with Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS codes that identify 
the supply associated with a surgical dressing. 
Explanation: Use this modifier with Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS codes that a provider 
reports for supplies associated with a surgical dressing, meaning a sterile bandage or compress applied to a wound to 
encourage healing and to prevent infection. 
AX 
Item furnished in conjunction with dialysis services 
Definition: Append this modifier to Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS codes that identify a 
supply associated with a dialysis services. 
Explanation: Use this modifier for Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS codes that a provider 
reports for items he furnishes that are dialysis supplies or equipment, but are not specifically identified as dialysis 
supplies or equipment in the code descriptor. 
Use modifier AX with dialysis supplies such as those codes in the ranges A4215 to A4217, A4244 to A4248, A4450, 
A4452, A4651 to A4670, A4927, A4928, A4930, A4931, A6216, A6250, A6260, and A6402. 
Use modifier AX also with dialysis equipment codes such as E0210, E1632, E 1637, and E1639. 
Tips: A provider can report this code for items furnished in conjunction with home dialysis services too. 
AY 
Item or service furnished to an ESRD patient that is not for the treatment of ESRD 
Definition: Append this modifier to Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS codes that represent 
an item or service she furnishes to an End Stage Renal Disease, or ESRD, patient that is not for the treatment of the 
ESRD. 
Explanation: This modifier was developed for only Medicare purposes. Under the bundled payment system, a single 
payment is made for renal dialysis services and other items and services for example, supplies and equipment the 
provider uses to administer dialysis, and the drugs, biologicals, laboratory tests, and support services related to home 
dialysis. However, if any End Stage Renal Dis_ease, or ESRD facility provides any items or services to a beneficiary, 
which do not relate to the treatment of the patient's ESRD condition, then the ESRD facility submits those services 
using the AY modifier to allow for separate payment outside of ESRD bundled payment system. 
Tips: Use this modifier only when the documents clearly support that the service the provider performs for a reason 
unrelated to ESRD treatment. 
506 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
AZ-BP 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
AZ 
Physician providing a service in a dental health professional shortage area for the purpose of an electronic 
health record incentive payment 
Definition: Append this modifier to represent the services that a provider renders in zip codes areas that fall within a 
designated dental health professional shortage area, or HPSA to obtain the electronic health record, or EHR, incentive 
payment. 
Explanation: Modifier AZ represents the services that a provider performs in a dental physician scarcity area, or 
a geographic area with a shortage of dental health professionals available to the Medicare population in that area. 
Append this modifier to report services the provider renders in a dental HPSA when the Zip code does not fully fall 
within that dental HPSA. Use of this modifier provides for an electronic health record incentive payment, made to 
eligible providers that adopt, implement, upgrade, or demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology. 
Tips: This modifier does not impact the payment or calculation of the fee for service geographic quarterly HPSA, or 
health professional shortage area bonus. 
BA 
Item furnished in conjunction with parenteral enteral nutrition (PEN) services 
Definition: Append modifier BA to represent an item or service a provider furnishes in conjunction with parenteral 
enteral nutrition, or PEN, services. 
Explanation: A provider reports the BA modifier for items that a provider furnishes for use with parenteral enteral 
nutrition services. For example, when the provider uses an intravenous, or IV pole in conjunction with parenteral 
nutrition, and reports E0776, IV pole, the provider appends the BA modifier. 
Tips: Use the BA modifier with E0776 exclusively. 
BL 
Special acquisition of blood and blood products 
Definition: Append this modifier to Healthcare Common Procedure Code System, or HCPCS codes that the provider 
reports for the actual blood or blood product. 
Explanation: Use this modifier with appropriate blood product Healthcare Common Procedure Code System, 
or HCPCS codes that a provider uses in an outpatient hospital setting for example when he purchases the products 
from a community blood bank or when he assess a charge for the blood or blood product that the provider collects in 
his own blood bank. 
Tips: The provider reports charges for the blood or blood product itself with the date of service, the number of units, 
and the appropriate blood product HCPCS code and modifier BL. He also reports the processing and storage services 
on a separate line the same line item date of service, the same number of units, and the same appropriate blood 
product HCPCS code and modifier BL. 
This modifier is applicable for blood products payment under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system. 
There is no requirement for use of this modifier by critical access hospitals, or CAHs. 
BO 
Orally administered nutrition, not by feeding tube 
Definition: Append this modifier to enteral nutrition Healthcare Common Procedure Code System, or HCPCS codes 
when the provider administers enteral nutrition products by mouth. 
Explanation: A provider appends this modifier with Healthcare Common Procedure Code System, or HCPCS codes 
that he reports for enteral nutrition therapy. He administers the enteral nutrition products to the patient orally, or by 
mouth, and not through a feeding tube. 
This modifier is applicable for enteral nutrients, reportable using HCPCS codes B4149 to B4162. 
Tips: This modifier is applicable for certain Home Health and Hospice services as well. 
BP 
The beneficiary has been informed of the purchase and rental options and has elected to purchase the item 
Definition: Append modifier BP to a code for durable medical equipment where the provider informs the beneficiary of 
the purchase and rental options and the beneficiary elects to purchase the item. 
Explanation: Modifier BP indicates that the patient chooses to purchase a durable medical equipment, or DME, item 
after the provider fully informs the recipient at the time the patient receives the item of the purchase and rental options 
for the item. 
A provider appends this modifier for durable medical equipment, or DME, items such as parenteral and enteral, or PEN 
pumps and electric wheelchairs, reportable with HCPCS K0835 thru K0891. 
Tips: Medicare discontinued the use of the following modifiers on claims for most capped rental items outside of 
those identified above: BP, The beneficiary has been informed of the purchase and rental options and has elected to 
purchase the item, modifier BR, and modifier BU, The beneficiary has been informed of the purchase and rental options 
and after 30 days has not informed the supplier of his/her decision. This change was due to the implementation of 
Section 5101 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
507 
BR-CB 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
BR 
The beneficiary has been informed of the purchase and rental options and has elected to rent the item 
Definition: Append modifier BR to a code for durable medical equipment, or DME, items where the provider informs
the beneficiary of the differences between purchasing and renting of the DME item and the beneficiary chooses to rent
the item. 
Explanation: Modifier BR identifies a code as an item where the beneficiary chooses to rent the item after the provider 
fully informs the recipient at the time the patient receives the item of the purchase and rental options available. A 
provider appends this modifier for durable medical equipment, or DME, items such as parenteral and enteral, or PEN 
pumps and electric wheelchairs, reportable with HCPCS K0835 through K0891. 
Tips: Medicare discontinued the use of the following modifiers on claims for most capped rental items outside of 
those identified above: BP, The beneficiary has been informed of the purchase and rental options and has elected to 
purchase the item, modifier BR, and modifier BU, The beneficiary has been informed of the purchase and rental options 
and after 30 days has not informed the supplier of his/her decision. This change was due to the implementation of 
Section 5101 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. 
BU 
The beneficiary has been informed of the purchase and rental options and after 30 days has not informed the 
supplier of his/her decision 
Definition: Append modifier BU to a code for durable medical equipment, or DME, items where the provider informs 
the beneficiary of the differences between purchasing and renting the item and after 30 days the beneficiary has not 
informed the supplier of his decision. 
Explanation: Modifier BU identifies a code for a durable medical equipment, or DME, item that a provider fully informs 
the recipient at the time the patient receives the item of the purchase and rental options available but the beneficiary 
does not inform the supplier of his decision to rent or purchase the item for 30 days or more. 
A provider appends this modifier for certain durable medical equipment, or DME, items such as parenteral and enteral, 
or PEN, pumps and electric wheelchairs regardless of the date of the first rental period, reportable with HCPCS K0835 
thru K0891, and on all capped rental items where the first rental period began prior to January 1, 2006. 
Tips: Medicare discontinued the use of the following modifiers on claims for most capped rental items outside of 
those identified above: BP, The beneficiary has been informed of the purchase and rental options and has elected to 
purchase the item, modifier BR, and modifier BU, The beneficiary has been informed of the purchase and rental options 
and after 30 days has not informed the supplier of his/her decision. This change was due to the implementation of 
Section 5101 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. 
CA 
Procedure payable only in the inpatient setting when performed emergently on an outpatient who expires prior 
to admission 
Definition: Append modifier CA when the patient is an outpatient, in an inpatient setting, and the patient passes away 
without being admitted as an inpatient. 
Explanation: In order to receive payment for the CA modifier with a Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or 
HCPCS code, the patient should be an emergency patient and must be an outpatient, the setting should be an inpatient 
setting only, and the patient passes away without being admitted as an inpatient. 
For outpatients who receive inpatient only procedures on an emergency basis and who expire before inpatient 
admittance to the hospital, the provider receives a specific outpatient Ambulatory Payment Classification, or APC 
payment as reimbursement for all the services on that day. The assignment of a modifier CA on an inpatient only 
procedure line identifies the service as such and assigns the specific payment, and turns on a packaging flag for all 
other line items on that claim with that date of service. Payment is only permissible for one procedure with a modifier of 
CA. 
Tips: Do not use modifier CA on more than one procedure on a claim. If a provider submits multiple inpatient only 
procedures with the modifier CA, the payer returns the claim back to the provider. If a provider applies a modifier CA 
on an inpatient only procedure code for a patient who did not expire, and the patient discharge status code is not 20, 
Expired, then the provider will also get the claim back. 
CB 
Service ordered by a renal dialysis facility (RDF) physician as part of the ESRD beneficiary's dialysis benefit, is 
not part of the composite rate, and is separately reimbursable 
Definition: A provider appends modifier CB to identify services ordered by a renal dialysis facility, or RDF, provider 
as part of the dialysis benefit of an end stage renal disease, or ESRD patient. This is not a part of the composite rate 
payment, and is separately reimbursable. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier CB to services related to an ESRD patient's dialysis treatment and ordered 
by the dialysis facility physician. The test is not a part of the dialysis facility's composite rate payment, and is separately 
reimbursable. These services may include chest X-rays and other X-rays presumptively considered to be dialysis 
related and, therefore, appropriate for submission with the CB modifier; along with lab tests such as certain panel tests, 
urinalysis, and specific electrocardiogram, or ECG, tests and some vascular studies. 
Tips: Modifier CB affects consolidated billing rules for skilled nursing facilities for inpatients. 
A_ppend modifier CB, only after determining that the patient has ESRD entitlement, he is undergoing the test for 
d1alys1s treatment for ESRD, the test is an order of the dialysis facility, the test is not a part of the composite rate, and is 
separately reimbursable. The patient should be in a Medicare Part A stay, Bill 21 X or 22X. 
508 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
CC-CE
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
cc 
Procedure code change (use 'CC' when the procedure code submitted was changed either for administrative 
reasons or because an incorrect code was filed) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier CC to report a procedure code change, when the procedure code submitted 
changes either for administrative reasons, or due to filing of an incorrect code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier CC to a service when the procedure code submitted changes either for 
administrative reasons or due to incorrect code usage. Commonly, a contractor uses this modifier to identify when the 
procedure code submitted was changed by them. 
Tips: Providers should not use modifier CC. It is an internal modifier that identifies when the Medicare contractor 
changes the procedure code that the provider submitted. 
CD 
AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or MCP physician that is part of the composite rate and is not 
separately billable 
Definition: Append modifier CD when the End Stage Renal Disease, or ESRD provider or any provider performs an 
automated multi channel laboratory test, or AMCC test on an ESRD patient who is undergoing maintenance dialysis. 
Explanation: Use this modifier when an End Stage Renal Disease, or ESRD provider or any provider performs an 
automated multi channel laboratory test, or AMCC, test on an ESRD patient who is undergoing maintenance dialysis. 
This modifier indicates that the test is a part of the composite rate and is not separately reimbursable. 
When a provider reports an individual laboratory code such as 82330, Calcium; ionized, as Monthly Capitation 
Payment, or MCP requires, rather than reporting the disease panel code, such as 82310, Calcium; total, he appends 
modifier CD, when the test is part of the composite rate or he appends CE, AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD 
facility or MCP provider that is a composite rate test but is beyond the normal frequency covered under the rate and is 
separately reimbursable based on medical necessity. 
Tips: Providers billing AMCC ESRD related tests to Medicare must report CD, CE, or CF modifiers for each test. 
Beginning with dates of service on or after April 1, 2015, ESRD claims will no longer require ESRD facilities to submit 
theses three modifiers: CD, CE, AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or MCP physician that is a composite 
rate test but is beyond the normal frequency covered under the rate and is separately reimbursable based on medical 
necessity; or modifier CF, AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or MCP physician that is not part of the 
composite rate and is separately billable. 
CE 
AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or MCP physician that is a composite rate test but is beyond 
the normal frequency covered under the rate and is separately reimbursable based on medical necessity 
Definition: Append modifier CE when the End Stage Renal Disease, ESRD facility or another facility performs an 
automated multi channel laboratory, or AMCC test on an ESRD patient who is undergoing maintenance dialysis. 
This modifier indicates that the test is beyond the normal frequency limit the composite reimbursement covers so it is 
separately payable. 
Explanation: Use this modifier when either the ESRD facility or another facility performs an automated multi channel 
laboratory, or AMCC test on an ESRD patient who is undergoing maintenance dialysis. This modifier indicates that 
the test is reasonable and medically necessary, a part of the composite rate, but is beyond the frequency limits and is 
separately reimbursable. 
When a provider reports an individual laboratory code such as 82330. Calcium; ionized, as the Monthly Capitation 
Payment, or MCP requires, rather than reporting the disease panel code, such as 82310, Calcium; total, he appends 
modifier CD, AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or MCP physician that is part of the composite rate and 
is not separately billable, or he appends modifier CE when the code is separately reimbursable. 
Tips: Providers billing AMCC ESRD related tests to Medicare must report CD, CE, or CF modifiers for each test. 
Beginning with dates of service on or after April 1, 2015, ESRD claims will no longer require ESRD facilities to submit 
theses three modifiers: CD, AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or MCP physician that is part of the 
composite rate and is not separately billable; or modifier CE; or CF, AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or 
MCP physician that is not part of the composite rate and is separately billable. 
509 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
CF-CH 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
CF 
AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or MCP physician that is not part of the composite rate and is 
separately billable 
Definition: Append modifier CF when the End Stage Renal Disease, ESRD facility or an outside facility performs an 
automated multi channel laboratory, or AMCC, test on an ESRD patient undergoing maintenance dialysis. This modifier 
indicates that the test is not included in the composite rate and is separately reimbursable. 
Explanation: When submitting claims to Medicare for ESRD related automated multi channel chemistry tests, or AMCC 
tests, use modifier CF to identify which tests are not inclusive within the ESRD facility composite rate payment. Append 
modifier CF to identify tests that the provider orders that are not a part of the composite rate. These tests are separately 
reimbursable. 
Use modifier CF if the provider orders tests for chronic dialysis for ESRD such as an AMCC test that is not part of the 
composite rate and is separately billable and has been ordered by an ESRD facility or Monthly Capitation Payment, or 
MCP physician. You may submit this modifier with any of the AMCC codes. 
Tips: Providers billing AMCC ESRD related tests to Medicare must report CD, CE, or CF modifiers for each test. 
Beginning with dates of service on or after April 1, 2015, ESRD claims will no longer require ESRD facilities to 
submit these three modifiers: CD, AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or MCP physician that is part of 
the composite rate and is not separately billable; or CE, AMCC test has been ordered by an ESRD facility or MCP 
physician that is a composite rate test but is beyond the normal frequency covered under the rate and is separately 
reimbursable based on medical necessity; or modifier CF. 
CG 
Policy criteria applied 
Definition: Append modifier CG to a code to identify a policy criteria applied. 
Explanation: For services reportable as an L3923 orthosis that has a rigid plastic or metal component, you must add 
the CG modifier. If you bill a claim for L3923 without a CG modifier, it will be denied. Similarly, if a spinal garment for 
example L0450, L0454, L0621, L0625, or L0628 is made primarily of a nonelastic material, such as canvas, cotton, or 
nylon, or has a rigid posterior panel, you must add the CG modifier or the service will be rejected or denied for incorrect 
coding. 
Tips: This modifier is informational only and you may submit it with all procedure codes. 
CH 
0 percent impaired, limited or restricted 
Definition: Append modifier CH to a code for a patient with a zero percent impairment, with limited or restricted 
movement. 
Explanation: Modifier CH identifies the extent of a patient's impairment. The severity of impairment to assign this 
modifier is zero percent impaired, with limited or restricted movement. CH is a severity modifier that a provider uses on 
specific therapy claims. Report only one functional limitation for each related therapy plan of care, or POC. In situations 
where a provider completes reporting on the first reportable functional limitation and the need for treatment continues, 
he reports a second functional limitation using another set of G codes. 
Functional reporting is necessary, at the beginning of a therapy episode of care, or on the date of service, or DOS, 
for the initial therapy service; at least once every ten treatment days; on the same DOS that a provider reports an 
evaluative or re evaluative on a claim; at the time of patient discharge from a therapy episode of care; and on the same 
DOS the reporting of a particular functional limitation ends, when further therapy is necessary. 
Tips: Use this modifier to report the severity or complexity for the functional measure for each non payable therapy G
code. 
The severity modifiers reflect the patient's percentage of functional impairment as determined by the therapist, 
physician, or nonphysician practitioner who provides the therapy services. 
The appropriate severity modifiers report a patient's current status, the anticipated goal status, and the discharge 
status. 
510 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Cl-CK 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
Cl 
At least 1 percent but less than 20 percent impaired, limited or restricted 
Definition: Append modifier Cl to a code for a patient with an impairment of one to 20 percent, with limited or restricted 
movement. 
Explanation: Modifier Cl identifies the extent of impairment in a patient. The severity of impairment may range from 
one percent to 20 percent, with limited or restricted movement. Cl is a severity modifier that a provider uses on specific 
therapy claims. Report only one functional limitation for each related therapy plan of care, or POC. In situations where a 
provider completes reporting on the first reportable functional limitation and the need for treatment continues, he reports 
a second functional limitation using another set of G codes. 
Functional reporting is necessary, at the beginning of a therapy episode of care, or on the DOS for the initial therapy 
service; al least once every ten treatment days; on the same DOS that a provider reports an evaluative or re evaluative 
on a claim; at the time of patient discharge from a therapy episode of care; and on the same DOS the reporting of a 
particular functional limitation ends, when further therapy is necessary. 
Tips: Use this modifier to report the severity or complexity for the functional measure for each non payable therapy G 
code. 
The severity modifiers reflect the patient's percentage of functional impairment as determined by the therapist, 
physician, or nonphysician practitioner who provides the therapy services. 
The appropriate severity modifiers report a patient's current status, the anticipated goal status, and the discharge 
status. 
CJ 
At least 20 percent but less than 40 percent impaired, limited or restricted 
Definition: Append modifier CJ to a code for a patient with an impairment of 20 to 40 percent, with limited or restricted 
movement. 
Explanation: Modifier CJ identifies the extent of impairment in a patient. The severity of impairment may range from 
20 percent to 40 percent, with limited or restricted movement. CJ is a severity modifier that a provider uses on specific 
therapy claims. Report only one functional limitation for each related therapy plan of care, or POC. In situations where a 
provider completes reporting on the first reportable functional limitation and the need for treatment continues, he reports 
a second functional limitation using another set of G codes. 
Functional reporting is necessary, at the beginning of a therapy episode of care, or on the date of service, or DOS, 
for the initial therapy service; at least once every ten treatment days; on the same DOS that a provider reports an 
evaluative or re evaluative on a claim; at the time of patient discharge from a therapy episode of care; and on the same 
DOS the reporting of a particular functional limitation ends, when further therapy is necessary. 
Tips: Use this modifier to report the severity or complexity for the functional measure for each non payable therapy G 
code. 
The severity modifiers reflect the patient's percentage of functional impairment as determined by the therapist, 
physician, or nonphysician practitioner who provides the therapy services. 
The appropriate severity modifiers report a patient's current status, the anticipated goal status, and the discharge 
status. 
CK 
At least 40 percent but less than 60 percent impaired, limited or restricted 
Definition: Append modifier CK to a code for a patient with an impairment of 40 to 60 percent, with limited or restricted 
movement. 
Explanation: Modifier CK identifies the extent of impairment in a patient. The severity of impairment may range from 
40 percent to 60 percent, with limited or restricted movement. CK is a severity modifier that a provider uses on specific 
therapy claims. Report only one functional limitation for each related therapy plan of care, or POC. In situations where a 
provider completes reporting on the first reportable functional limitation and the need for treatment continues, he reports 
a second functional limitation using another set of G codes. 
Functional reporting is necessary, at the beginning of a therapy episode of care, or on the date of service, or DOS, 
for the initial therapy service; at least once every ten treatment days; on the same DOS that a provider reports an 
evaluative or re evaluative on a claim; at the time of patient discharge from a therapy episode of care; and on the same 
DOS the reporting of a particular functional limitation ends, when further therapy is necessary. 
Tips: Use this modifier to report the severity or complexity for the functional measure for each non payable therapy G
code. 
The severity modifiers reflect the patient's percentage of functional impairment as determined by the therapist, 
physician, or nonphysician practitioner who provides the therapy services. 
The appropriate severity modifiers report a patient's current status, the anticipated goal status, and the discharge 
status. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
511 
Cl-CN 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
CL 
At least 60 percent but less than 80 percent impaired, limited or restricted 
Definition: Append modifier CL to a code for a patient with an impairment of 60 to 80 percent, with limited or restricted
movement. 
Explanation: Modifier CL identifies the extent of impairment in a patient. The severity of impairment may range from 
60 percent to 80 percent, with limited or restricted movement. CL is a severity modifier that a provider uses on specific 
therapy claims. Report only one functional limitation for each related therapy plan of care, or POC. In situations where a 
provider completes reporting on the first reportable functional limitation and the need for treatment continues, he reports 
a second functional limitation using another set of G codes. 
Functional reporting is necessary, at the beginning of a therapy episode of care, or on the date of service, or DOS, 
for the initial therapy service; at least once every ten treatment days; on the same DOS that a provider reports an 
evaluative or re evaluative on a claim; at the time of patient discharge from a therapy episode of care; and on the same 
DOS the reporting of a particular functional limitation ends, when further therapy is necessary. 
Tips: Use this modifier to report the severity or complexity for the functional measure for each non payable therapy G 
code. 
The severity modifiers reflect the patient's percentage of functional impairment as determined by the therapist, 
physician, or nonphysician practitioner who provides the therapy services. 
The appropriate severity modifiers report a patient's current status, the anticipated goal status, and the discharge 
status. 
CM 
At least 80 percent but less than 100 percent impaired, limited or restricted 
Definition: Append modifier CM to a code for a patient with an impairment of 80 to 100 percent, with limited or 
restricted movement. 
Explanation: Modifier CM identifies the extent of impairment in a patient. The severity of impairment may range 
from 80 percent to 100 percent, with limited or restricted movement. CM is a severity modifier that a provider uses on 
specific therapy claims. Report only one functional limitation for each related therapy plan of care, or POC. In situations 
where a provider completes reporting on the first reportable functional limitation and the need for treatment continues, 
he reports a second functional limitation using another set of G codes. 
Functional reporting is necessary, at the beginning of a therapy episode of care, or on the date of service, or DOS 
for the initial therapy service; at least once every ten treatment days; on the same DOS that a provider reports an 
evaluative or re evaluative on a claim; at the time of patient discharge from a therapy episode of care; and on the same 
DOS the reporting of a particular functional limitation ends, when further therapy is necessary. 
Tips: Use this modifier to report the severity or complexity for the functional measure for each non payable therapy G 
code. 
The severity modifiers reflect the patient's percentage of functional impairment as determined by the therapist, 
physician, or nonphysician practitioner who provides the therapy services. 
The appropriate severity modifiers report a patient's current status, the anticipated goal status, and the discharge 
status. 
CN 
100 percent impaired, limited or restricted 
Definition: Append modifier CN to a code for a patient with an impairment of 100 percent, with limited or restricted 
movement. 
Explanation: Modifier CN identifies the extent of impairment in a patient. The severity of impairment is 100 percent, 
with limited or restricted movement. CN is a severity modifier that a provider uses on specific therapy claims. Report 
only one functional limitation for each related therapy plan of care, or POC. In situations where a provider completes 
reporting on the first reportable functional limitation and the need for treatment continues, he reports a second 
functional limitation using another set of G codes. 
Functional reporting is necessary, at the beginning of a therapy episode of care, or on the date of service, or DOS, 
for the initial therapy service; at least once every ten treatment days; on the same DOS that a provider reports an 
evaluative or re evaluative on a claim; at the time of patient discharge from a therapy episode of care; and on the same 
DOS the reporting of a particular functional limitation ends, when further therapy is necessary. 
Tips: Use this modifier to report the severity or complexity for the functional measure for each non payable therapy G 
code. 
The severity modifiers reflect the patient's percentage of functional impairment as determined by the therapist, 
physician, or nonphysician practitioner who provides the therapy services. 
The appropriate severity modifiers report a patient's current status, the anticipated goal status, and the discharge 
status. 
512 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
CO-CS 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
co 
Outpatient occupational therapy services furnished in whole or in part by an occupational therapy assistant 
Definition: Append modifier CO to codes for outpatient occupational therapy (OPT) when an OPT assistant performs 
all or a portion of the service. 
Explanation: Modifier CO denotes that some or all of a patient's outpatient occupational therapy (OPT) was performed 
by an OPT assistant. The OPT assistant performs the therapy in an outpatient setting, and the diagnosis code must be 
consistent with a condition that requires occupational therapy. 
OPT helps injured, ill, or disabled patients develop, recover, and improve skills needed for activities of daily living 
(ADLs),such as eating, bathing, dressing, toileting, and walking, and work-related activities, such as lifting, bending, 
sorting, and other skills depending on the type of work the patient performs. 
Tips: Append modifier CO only with codes on the list of applicable therapy services for occupational therapy and that 
are part of the plan of care for that patient. 
ca 
Outpatient physical therapy services furnished in whole or in part by a physical therapist assistant 
Definition: Append modifier CQ to codes for outpatient physical therapy (PT) when an PT assistant performs all or a 
portion of the service. 
Explanation: Modifier CQ denotes that some or all of a patient's outpatient physical therapy (PT) was performed by a 
PT assistant. The PT assistant performs the therapy in an outpatient setting, and the diagnosis code must be consistent 
with a condition that requires occupational therapy. 
Physical therapy uses therapeutic exercises and equipment to help patients with physical dysfunction regain or improve 
their physical abilities. 
Tips: Append modifier CQ only with codes on the list of applicable therapy services for physical therapy and that are 
part of the plan of care for that patient. 
CR 
Catastrophe/disaster related 
Definition: Append modifier CR to a code for services related to an emergency or disaster related condition. 
Explanation: Modifier CR identifies the services given to victims in the case of an emergency or disaster related 
condition such as a hurricane. In the event of a disaster or emergency, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services, or CMS, issues specific guidance for use of this modifier. CMS provides information such as the geographic 
area the code is applicable to, and the beginning and end dates that apply to the use of the modifier and its related bill 
condition code, DR, Disaster related, which a provider also reports to identify the services are or may be impacted by 
specific policies related to a national or regional disaster. 
Tips: Use this modifier to code for catastrophe, disaster or emergency claims. 
You may use CR modifier for institutional or non institutional billing. 
One may use this modifier in case of an emergency disaster related condition and there is a condition levied on the 
payment of Medicare. 
cs 
Cost-sharing waived for specified covid-19 testing-related services that result in and order for or 
administration of a covid-19 test and/or used for cost-sharing waived preventive services furnished via 
telehealth in rural health clinics and federally qualified health centers during the covid-19 public health 
emergency 
Definition: Append modifier CS to indicate cost-sharing is waived for specified COVID-19 testing-related services. 
Rural health clinics and federally qualified health centers also use modifier CS to distinguish telehealth services that 
have cost-sharing waived during the COVID-19 public health emergency. 
Explanation: Modifier CS is appropriate with codes for specified COVID-19 test-related services, including applicable 
telehealth services, if those services meet certain requirements for waiving cost-sharing. Examples of requirements 
include codes for evaluation and management (E/M) services that result in an order for, or administration of, a 
COVID-19 lab test during the public health emergency. 
Tips: Payer rules may vary for use of this modifier. Medicare states cost-sharing does not apply for COVID-19 testing-
related services, which are medical visits that are furnished between March 18, 2020, and the end of the COVID-19 
public health emergency (PHE); result in an order for or administration of a COVID-19 test; are related to furnishing 
or administering such a test or to the evaluation of an individual for purposes of determining the need for such a test; 
and are in any of the following E/M categories: office and other outpatient services; hospital observation services; 
emergency department services; nursing facility services; domiciliary, rest home, or custodial care services; home 
services; and online digital evaluation and management services. Medicare provides lists of codes that modifier CS 
may apply to. 
For Medicare, cost-sharing does not apply to the specified medical visit services for which payment is made to 
hospital outpatient departments paid under the Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS), physicians and other 
professionals under the Physician Fee Schedule, Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs), RHCs, and FQHCs. 
RHCs and FQHCs append CS to G2025 (Distant site telehealth services Rural Health Clinics or Federally Qualified 
Health Centers (RHC/FQHC)) when the code represents one of the services where coinsurance is waived. 
Providers who use modifier CS should not charge patients co-insurance and/or deductible amounts for those services. 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
513 
CT-E3 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
CT 
Computed tomography services furnished using equipment that does not meet each of the attributes of the 
National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) XR-29-2013 standard 
Definition: Append modifier CT when a provider renders computed tomography (CT) with equipment that doesn't meet 
the National Electrical Manufacturers' Association standard. 
Explanation: The National Electrical Manufacturers' Association (NEMA) represents U.S. electrical equipment and 
medical imaging manufacturers. These manufacturers produce products that generate and transmit electricity and can 
be used for medical, commercial, and industrial purposes. Modifier CT appended to a code indicates that CT equipment 
was used for the patient's services, but that equipment does not comply with NEMA standards. 
DA 
Oral health assessment by a licensed health professional other than a dentist 
Summary: Append modifier DA to a code for an oral health assessment that a licensed health professional, other than a 
dentist, performs. 
Explanation: Modifier DA identifies an oral health assessment for a patient with dental or oral health problems. A 
licensed health professional other than a dentist performs this assessment. An oral health assessment determines the 
level of a patient's oral hygiene such as healthy or unhealthy oral cleanliness, condition of the lips, tongue, saliva, gums 
and tissue, and caries risk, meaning the patient's risk of tooth decay. 
Tips: This modifier is informational only and may be submitted with any appropriate HCPCS code. 
E1 
Upper left, eyelid 
Definition: Append modifier E1 when the provider performs a procedure on the left upper eyelid of a patient. 
Explanation: Modifier E1 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on a patient's left upper eyelid. A provider 
uses modifier E1 to identify the left upper eyelid, instead of using modifier LT, Left side, which identifies a procedure the 
provider performs on the left side of the body. 
HCPCS level II modifiers apply to codes for procedures that the provider performs on paired organs, like eyelids, 
fingers, or toes. These modifiers help to prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate 
procedures on different sites or different sides of the body. 
Tips: If more than one modifier needs to be applied, you may need to repeat the HCPCS code on another line with the 
appropriate Level II modifier. 
When modifier E1 applies to the service, use it before selecting modifiers LT, RT, or 59, Distinct procedural service. 
E2 
Lower left, eyelid 
Definition: Append modifier E2 when the provider performs a procedure on the left lower eyelid of a patient. 
Explanation: Modifier E2 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the patient's left lower eyelid. A provider 
uses modifier E2 to identify the left lower eyelid, instead of using modifier LT, Left side, which identifies a procedure the 
provider performs on the left side of the body. 
HCPCS level II modifiers apply to codes for procedures that the provider performs on paired organs, like eyelids, 
fingers, or toes. These modifiers help to prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate 
procedures on different sites or different sides of the body. 
Tips: If more than one modifier needs to be applied, you may need to repeat the HCPCS code on another line with the 
appropriate Level II modifier. 
E3 
Upper right, eyelid 
Definition: Append modifier E3 when the provider performs a procedure on the right upper eyelid of a patient. 
Explanation: Modifier E3 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the patient's right upper eyelid. A 
provider uses modifier E3 to identify the right upper eyelid, instead of using modifier RT, Right side, which identifies a 
procedure the provider performs on the right side of the body. 
HCPCS level II modifiers apply to codes for procedures that the provider performs on paired organs, like eyelids, 
fingers, or toes. These modifiers help to prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate 
procedures on different sites or different sides of the body. 
Tips: If more than one modifier needs to be applied, repeat the HCPCS code on another line with the appropriate Level
II modifier. 
514 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
E4-EC 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
E4 
Lower right, eyelid 
Definition: Append modifier E4 when the provider performs a procedure on the right lower eyelid of a patient. 
Explanation: Modifier E4 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the patient's right lower eyelid. A 
provider uses modifier E4 to identify the right lower eyelid, instead of using modifier RT, Right side, which identifies a 
procedure the provider performs on the right side of the body. 
HCPCS level II modifiers apply to codes for procedures that the provider performs on paired organs, like eyelids, 
fingers, or toes. These modifiers help to prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate 
procedures on different sites or different sides of the body. 
Tips: If more than one modifier needs to be applied, you may need to repeat the HCPCS code on another line with the 
appropriate Level II modifier. 
EA 
Erythropoietic stimulating agent (ESA) administered to treat anemia due to anti-cancer chemotherapy 
Definition: Append modifier EA when the provider administers an agent that stimulates red blood cell production. 
The provider administers an erythropoietic stimulating agent, or ESA to treat anemia, a condition of a lower than 
normal hemoglobin, or red blood cell count in the blood of a patient taking anti cancer chemical compounds or drugs. 
Explanation: Modifier EA depicts administration of erythropoietic stimulating agent, or ESA, to a patient who has 
taken or is taking anti cancer drugs. The provider administers ESA to enhance the stimulation of red blood cells to treat 
anemia or low hemoglobin. The medical record should justify the diagnosis that corresponds to the administration of 
ESA as well as the nature or extent of the anemia. 
Tips: If the provider administers ESA to treat anemia due to anticancer radiotherapy, append modifier EB, 
Erythropoietic stimulating agent or ESA administered to treat anemia due to anti cancer radiotherapy. 
If the provider administers ESA to treat anemia, not due to anti cancer radiotherapy or chemotherapy, append modifier 
EC, Erythropoietic stimulating agent or ESA, administered to treat anemia not due to anti cancer radiotherapy or anti 
cancer chemotherapy. 
EB 
Erythropoietic stimulating agent (ESA) administered to treat anemia due to anti-cancer radiotherapy 
Definition: Append modifier EB when the provider administers an agent that stimulates red blood cell production. The 
provider administers an erythropoietic stimulating agent, or ESA to treat anemia, a condition of a lower than normal 
hemoglobin, or red blood cells count in the blood of a patient taking anti cancer radiotherapy. 
Explanation: Modifier EB identifies administration of erythropoietic stimulating agent, or ESA, to a patient who has 
received or is receiving anti cancer radiotherapy. The provider administers ESA to enhance the stimulation of red 
blood cells to treat anemia or low hemoglobin. The medical record should justify the diagnosis that corresponds to the 
administration of ESA as well as the nature or extent of the anemia. 
Tips: If the provider administers ESA to treat anemia due to anticancer chemotherapy, append modifier EA, 
Erythropoietic stimulating agent or ESA administered to treat anemia due to anti cancer chemotherapy. 
If the provider administers ESA to treat anemia, not due to anti cancer radiotherapy or chemotherapy, append modifier 
EC, Erythropoietic stimulating agent or ESA administered to treat anemia not due to anti cancer radiotherapy or anti 
cancer chemotherapy. 
EC 
Erythropoietic stimulating agent (ESA) administered to treat anemia not due to anti-cancer radiotherapy or 
anti-cancer chemotherapy 
Definition: Append modifier EC when the provider administers an agent that stimulates red blood cell production. The 
provider administers an erythropoietic stimulating agent, or ESA to treat anemia, a condition of a lower than normal red 
blood cell count or hemoglobin in the blood of a patient. The anemia is not because of taking anti cancer chemotherapy 
or radiotherapy. 
Explanation: Modifier EC identifies administration of erythropoietic stimulating agent, or ESA, to a patient to enhance 
the stimulation of red blood cells to treat anemia or low hemoglobin. The medical record should justify the diagnosis 
that corresponds to the administration of ESA as well as the nature or extent of the anemia. Append this modifier when 
anemia does not develop due to anti cancer chemotherapy or radiotherapy. 
Tips: If the provider administers ESA to treat anemia due to anticancer chemotherapy, append modifier EA, 
Erythropoietic stimulating agent or ESA administered to treat anemia due to anti cancer chemotherapy. 
If the provider administers ESA to treat anemia due to anticancer radiotherapy, append modifier EB, Erythropoietic 
stimulating agent or ESA administered to treat anemia due to anti cancer radiotherapy. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
515 
ED-EJ 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
ED 
Hematocrit level has exceeded 39% (or hemoglobin level has exceeded 13.0 G/dl) for 3 or more consecutive 
billing cycles immediately prior to and including the current cycle 
Definition: Append modifier ED to a code for hemodialysis patients when the provider measures the hematocrit 
level and it exceeds 39 percent or the hemoglobin level exceeds 13.0 g/dl, or grams per deciliter, for three or more 
consecutive billings immediately prior to and including the current service. 
Explanation: Modifier ED illustrates the measurement of a patient's hematocrit level which exceeds 39 percent or a 
hemoglobin level, which is greater than 13.0 g/dl, or grams per deciliter, in a patient undergoing hemodialysis for end 
stage renal disease, or ESRD. When the kidneys fail to perform their function, dialysis becomes important to remove
waste products from the blood. The provider tests the patient's hemoglobin level in hemodialysis patients. He tests for 
three or more consecutive billing cycles immediately prior to and including the current cycle and appends this modifier 
when applicable. 
Tips: Requests for payments or claims for ESAs for ESRD patients receiving dialysis in renal dialysis facilities must 
report modifiers ED or EE, Hematocrit level has not exceeded 39% or hemoglobin level has not exceeded 13.0 g per di 
for three or more consecutive billing cycles immediately prior to and including the current cycle. 
Providers may continue to report modifier GS, Dosage of erythropoietin stimulating agent has been reduced and 
maintained in response to hematocrit or hemoglobin level, when the provider reports that the hematocrit or hemoglobin 
levels exceed the monitoring threshold and a dose reduction has occurred. When the GS modifier is on a claim also 
reporting modifier EE, the claim will be paid in full. The GS modifier, however, has no effect on the 50 percent dosage 
reduction, on claims reporting modifier ED. 
EE 
Hematocrit level has not exceeded 39% (or hemoglobin level has not exceeded 13.0 G/dl) for 3 or more 
consecutive billing cycles immediately prior to and including the current cycle 
Definition: Append modifier EE to a code for hemodialysis patients when the provider measures the hematocrit level 
which does not exceed 39 percent or the hemoglobin level does not exceed 13.0g/dl, or grams per deciliter, for three or 
more consecutive billings immediately prior to and including the current service. 
Explanation: Modifier EE illustrates the measurement of the hematocrit level which does not exceed 39 percent or a 
hemoglobin level, which is not greater than 13.0 g per di, or grams per deciliter, in a patient undergoing hemodialysis 
for end stage renal disease. or ESRD. When the kidneys fail to perform their function, dialysis becomes important to 
remove waste products from the blood. The provider tests the patient's hemoglobin level in hemodialysis patients. He 
tests for three or more consecutive billing cycles immediately prior to and including the current cycle and appends this 
modifier when applicable. 
Tips: Requests for payments or claims for ESAs for ESRD patients must report modifiers ED, Hematocrit level has 
exceeded 39% or hemoglobin level has exceeded 13.0 g per di for three or more consecutive billing cycles immediately 
prior to and including the current cycle, or append modifier EE. 
Providers may continue to report the modifier GS, Dosage of erythropoietin stimulating agent has been reduced and 
maintained in response to hematocrit or hemoglobin level, when the hematocrit or hemoglobin levels that the provider 
reports exceed the monitoring threshold and a dose reduction has occurred. When the GS modifier is on a claim also 
reporting modifier EE, the claim will be paid in full. The GS modifier, however, has no effect on the 50 percent dosage 
reduction, on claims reporting modifier ED. 
EJ 
Subsequent claims for a defined course of therapy, e.g., EPO, sodium hyaluronate, infliximab 
Definition: Append modifier EJ to a code for subsequent claims for a defined course of EPO, sodium hyaluronate, or 
infliximab therapy for a patient. 
Explanation: Modifier EJ illustrates the coding of subsequent claims for a defined course of therapy for a patient. The 
therapy may include EPO, or erythropoietin therapy, a growth factor that stimulates the production of red blood cells; 
sodium hyaluronate, a substance similar to a joints own natural protection that acts like a lubricant and or cushion when 
injected directly into a joint such as the knee; or infliximab, a manmade antibody given intravenously to treat various 
chronic inflammatory diseases. 
This modifier allows the easy identification of a subsequent claim, which does not require as much information as an 
initial claim and prevents unnecessary claim inquiries, letters, and questionnaires. One can submit subsequent claims 
electronically. 
Tips: Modifier EJ is an informational code for Medicare use. Because of this fact, submit this modifier in the last 
modifier position, after any other modifiers. 
The biller may also submit this modifier with many HCPCS J codes for injections. 
516 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
EM-EX 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
EM 
Emergency reserve supply (for ESRD benefit only) 
Definition: Append modifier EM to a code for an emergency reserve supply of an erythropoiesis stimulating agent, or 
ESA, for hemodialysis patients with end stage renal disease, or ESRD. 
Explanation: Modifier EM illustrates the measurement of the emergency reserve supply for an ESA, or erythropoiesis 
stimulating agent in a patient undergoing hemodialysis for end stage renal disease, or ESRD. When the kidneys fail 
to perform their function, dialysis becomes important to remove waste products from the blood. The provider tests the 
patient's blood to ensure that the dialysis is removing the waste products effectively. 
Use this code for ESRD patients beginning to self administer an ESA, or erythropoiesis stimulating agents, at home for 
the treatment of anemia due to the disease and who receive an extra month supply of the drug, this one month reserve 
supply is reportable on the claim line with modifier EM. 
Tips: Providers most commonly append this modifier to 90999, Unlisted dialysis procedure, inpatient or outpatient. It is 
not necessary to use the modifier on every claim line, but facilities should be sure to include the modifier on at least one 
revenue code claim line for Medicare. The modifier can affect the processing of the payment of the code. 
EP 
Service provided as part of Medicaid early periodic screening diagnosis and treatment (EPSDT) program 
Definition: Append modifier EP to a code for a service that the provider gives as part of the Medicaid early periodic 
screening diagnosis and treatment, or EPSDT program. 
Explanation: Modifier EP illustrates billing of the service that the provider delivers as part of the Medicaid early periodic 
screening diagnosis and treatment, or EPSDT, program. This includes preventive health checkups and treatments to 
children from birth to young adults. A few of the types of early preventative health screening and treatments include 
immunization, administration and health screenings for hearing and vision problems. Modifier EP can be appended to 
several of the immunization administration codes, and preventive medicine, periodic and interperiodic assessments. 
Tips: Only providers delivering EPSDT medical services should use the EP modifier code for billing purposes. The 
claim form must contain the procedure code to represent the type of medical service that the provider gives along with 
the EP modifier to show this was an early preventative service office visit. 
ER 
Items and services furnished by a provider-based, off-campus emergency department 
Definition: Append modifier ER to codes for outpatient hospital services and items, such as drugs or bandages, 
furnished in an off-campus provider-based emergency department (ED). 
Explanation: Modifier ER denotes that an item or outpatient hospital service was provided by an off-campus provider­
based emergency department. Off campus means a location physically separate from the immediate area of the 
hospital facility and or in a building located more than 250 yards away from the main hospital buildings. 
Tips: Critical access hospitals are not required to append this modifier. 
Modifier ER is used for informational purposes at its institution in 2019 and does not impact payment, but like 
other modifiers previously introduced for tracking outpatient services provided in other off-campus provider-based 
departments (PBDs), it may at some point affect payment. 
Individual providers should not append modifier ER and instead should use the appropriate place of service code to 
indicate outpatient services furnished in an on-campus, remote, or satellite location of a hospital or in an off-campus, 
provider-based hospital setting. 
ET 
Emergency services 
Definition: Append modifier ET to a code for the emergency services, including hospital emergency services, for 
multiple service dates, where the ER encounter spans more than one service date. 
Explanation: Modifier ET illustrates billing for the hospital emergency room, or ER, services when the provider delivers 
emergency services to a patient in that setting. This includes emergency department services for multiple service 
dates. ER services that a patient receives in a hospital are excluded from SNF Consolidated Billing, or SNF CB, for 
beneficiaries that are in a skilled Part A SNF stay. This code flags the service to bypass SNF Consolidated Billing, 
or CB, claim edits for the ER related service line items identified by the modifier ET. This code is not applicable for the 
services a patient receives in the Part A skilled nursing facility, or SNF. 
Append modifier ET with codes such as 99070, 99218, 99281 to 99285, and 99291 and 99292. 
Tips: Append modifier ET every time the patient visits the hospital emergency room, or ER. The services given in a 
hospital emergency room excludes the skilled nursing facility care. 
The service extends to multiple dates of service. 
Append this modifier to a code for an emergency dental procedures as well. 
EX 
Expatriate beneficiary 
Definition: This modifier designates a non-U.S. citizen working in his home country. 
Explanation: The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) identify expatriates as insureds who are non­
U.S. citizens working in their home country. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
517 
EY-F3 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
EY 
No physician or other licensed healthcare provider order for this item or service 
Definition: Append modifier EY to items or services without an order or prescription from the treating provider. This 
informational modifier notifies insurer that the provider is requesting a denial for secondary billing. For Medicare this is 
under the Coordination of Benefit, or COB guidelines. A provider appends this code when they issue durable medical 
equipment, prosthetic and orthotic supplies, or DMEPOS, without an order. 
Explanation: For Coordination of Benefit, or COB, purposes, the suppliers use the modifier EY, No licensed healthcare 
provider order for this item or service, on each line item on the claim and report their own name and National Provider 
Identifier, or NPI, as the ordering or referring provider. This is done to obtain a Medicare denial, under COB guidelines, 
which is where two or more insurances work together to pay for a service when a patient has more than one health 
insurance plan. Failure to include the EY modifier with all codes results in the return of the claim as unprocessable. If a 
provider has an order for some, but not all, of the items or services the provider furnishes to the Medicare beneficiary, 
the provider submits a separate claim for the items the provider dispenses to the patient without the treating physician's 
order. 
Tips: Medicare coverage requires an order by the provider, with the exception of some preventive screenings, or else 
the service is denied. 
F1 
Left hand, second digit 
Definition: Append modifier F1 when the provider performs a procedure on the second digit, or finger, of the left hand. 
Explanation: Modifier F1 identifies a procedure that the provider performs on the second, or index, finger of the 
left hand. This modifier is appropriate for surgical and diagnostic services but is not appropriate for Evaluation and 
Management, or E/M services. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
F2 
Left hand, third digit 
Definition: Append modifier F2 when the provider performs a procedure on the third digit, or finger of the left hand. 
Explanation: Modifier F2 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the third digit of the left hand. This 
modifier is appropriate for surgical and diagnostic services but is not appropriate for Evaluation and Management, or 
E/M services .. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
F3 
Left hand, fourth digit 
Definition: Append modifier F3 when the provider performs a procedure on the fourth digit, or finger, of the left hand. 
Explanation: Modifier F3 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the fourth finger of the left hand. This 
modifier is appropriate for surgical and diagnostic services but not appropriate for Evaluation and Management, or E/M 
services. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
dIg1ts (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
518 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
F4-F8 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
F4 
Left hand, fifth digit 
Definition: Append modifier F4 when the provider performs a procedure on the fifth digit, or finger of the left hand. 
Explanation: Modifier F4 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the fifth finger of the left hand. This 
modifier is applicable usually to surgical and diagnostic services but not appropriate for Evaluation and Management, or 
EM, services. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
FS 
Right hand, thumb 
Definition: Append modifier F5 when the provider performs a procedure on the thumb of the right hand. 
Explanation: Modifier F5 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the thumb of the right hand. This 
modifier is appropriate for surgical and diagnostic services but not appropriate for Evaluation and management, or E/M, 
services. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
FG 
Right hand, second digit 
Definition: Append modifier F6 when the provider performs a procedure on the second digit, or finger, of the right hand. 
Explanation: Modifier F6 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the second finger of the right hand. This 
modifier is appropriate for surgical and diagnostic services but not appropriate for Evaluation and Management, or E/M 
services. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
F7 
Right hand, third digit 
Definition: Append modifier F7 when the provider performs a procedure on the third digit, or finger, of the right hand. 
Explanation: Modifier F7 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the third finger of the right hand. This 
modifier is appropriate for surgical and diagnostic services but not appropriate for Evaluation and Management, or E/M 
services. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
FS 
Right hand, fourth digit 
Definition: Append modifier F8 when the provider performs a procedure on the fourth digit, or finger, of the right hand. 
Explanation: Modifier F8 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the fourth digit of the right hand. This
modifier is appropriate for surgical and diagnostic services but not appropriate for Evaluation and Management, or E/M
services. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th
digits (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
519 
F9-FC 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
F9 
Right hand, fifth digit 
Definition: Append modifier F9 when the provider performs a procedure on the fifth digit, or finger, of the right hand. 
Explanation: Modifier F9 illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the fifth digit of the right hand. This 
modifier is appropriate for surgical and diagnostic services but not appropriate for Evaluation and Management, or E/M 
services. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
FA 
Left hand, thumb 
Definition: Append modifier FA when the provider performs a procedure on the thumb of the left hand. 
Explanation: Modifier FA illustrates a procedure that the provider performs on the thumb of the left hand. This 
modifier is appropriate for surgical and diagnostic services but not appropriate for Evaluation and Management, or E/M, 
services. 
Tips: Modifier FA represents the thumb of the left hand, and modifiers F1 through F4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (fingers) of the left hand, respectively. 
Modifier F5 represents the thumb of the right hand, and modifiers F6 through F9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(fingers) of the right hand, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
FB 
Item provided without cost to provider, supplier or practitioner, or full credit received for replaced device 
(examples, but not limited to, covered under warranty, replaced due to defect, free samples) 
Definition: Append modifier FB with the facility charge for a surgery when a provider furnishes a device at no cost or 
when there is a full credit for a replacement device. This modifier triggers a reduced Ambulatory Payment Classification, 
or APC, payment when a provider reports the code on claims subject to the outpatient prospective payment system, or 
OPPS. 
Explanation: Modifier FB identifies the replacement of an implanted item or device with a device for which the provider 
incurs no cost or when the provider replaces an implanted device with a device for which they receive a full credit in the 
amount of the cost of the replaced device. Modifier FB may extend to nuclear medicine procedures when the provider 
obtains the associated diagnostic radiopharmaceutical at no cost. Append this modifier only when the supplier or 
provider makes the item available without cost or the facility receives an entire credit for the cost of the item. 
Always append modifier FB to the surgical procedure code, and not the item code. If the provider reports the modifier 
with the device code instead of the procedure code, the entire claim will be returned. 
Tips: Report modifier FC when the facility does not receive full credit for the cost of the item but receives a partial credit 
for the replaced device. 
FC 
Partial credit received for replaced device 
Definition: Append modifier FC when a facility furnishes a device and does not incur the full cost of the device such as 
when the provider receives a manufacturer credit of 50 percent or more of the cost of the device. 
Explanation: Modifier FC identifies that the provider receives a partial credit of 50 percent or more of the cost of 
a device for a replaced device. A provider appends this modifier for a new replacement device where the provider 
receives a discount of at least half or more of the cost of an item such as those under warranty, recall, or field 
action. Always append modifier FB to the surgical procedure code, and not the item code. 
At the time of device replacement, the provider may not know the amount of credit the manufacturer will provide for 
the device, or whether he will provide any discount at all. The facility has the option of either submitting the claim 
immediately without the FC modifier, or submitting a claim adjustment with the FC modifier at a later date once the 
credit determination is made. Or the facility may hold the claim until it is sure of the status of the credit. 
Tips: Medicare reduces their payment by 50 percent of the estimated cost of the device included in the procedure 
payment in cases in which the facility reports that it receives a credit of 50 percent or more of the cost of the new 
replacement device by appending the FC modifier to the device implantation procedure HCPCS code. 
520 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
FP-FX 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
FP 
Service provided as part of family planning program 
Definition: Append modifier FP to a code when reporting an annual family planning examination. 
Explanation: Modifier FP identifies that the services the provider furnishes is part of a family planning program. As a 
rule, providers append modifier FP only when reporting for the annual family planning examination. The provider reports 
the FP modifier with the code he reports for the family planning service. 
Tips: A provider omits modifier FP when reporting for all other family planning services, such as evaluation and 
management services, laboratory services, and anesthesia services. 
FQ 
The service was furnished using audio-only communication technology 
Definition: Append modifier FQ to indicate a service rendered to a patient used audio-only technology. The technology 
allows for Ni/o-way, real-time communication. 
Explanation: Modifier FQ indicates the provider rendered a healthcare service using an audio-only communication 
technology. The technology allows the patient and provider to communicate in real time. An example is a telephone call 
using sound without video visualization of the patient. This may occur when the patient is unable to use, does not wish 
to use, or does not have access to NilO-way, audio/video technology. 
Tips: See payer guidelines regarding services that are eligible for modifier FQ. An example may be treatment of a 
patient with a mental health condition who is calling the provider from home. 
FR 
The supervising practitioner was present through two-way, audio/video communication technology 
Definition: Append modifier FR to indicate the provider supervising the service was present through fflO-way 
communication technology with both audio and video. 
Explanation: Modifier FR indicates that the provider supervising the healthcare service was present virtually via 
technology rather than being physically present. The technology must allow fflo-way communication and must include 
both audio and video. 
Tips: See payer guidelines regarding services that are eligible for modifier FR. 
FS 
Split (or shared) evaluation and management visit 
Definition: Append modifier FS to indicate the service was a split or shared evaluation and management (E/M) visit. 
Explanation: Modifier FS indicates that an evaluation and management (E/M) service meets the definition of a split or 
shared visit. This modifier was created for Medicare use, but other payers may accept it. For Medicare, a split or shared 
service is an E/M service in a facility setting performed in part by a physician and in part by a nonphysician practitioner 
(NPP) in the same group, in accordance with applicable guidelines and regulations. 
Tips: See payer guidelines regarding services that are eligible for modifier FS. For instance, follow Medicare's 
definition of a split or shared visit when reporting to Medicare. Other payers may not accept this modifier or may not use 
Medicare's definition of a split or shared visit. 
FT 
Unrelated evaluation and management (e/m) visit on the same day as another e/m visit or during a global 
procedure (preoperative, postoperative period, or on the same day as the procedure, as applicable). (report 
when an e/m visit is furnished within the global period but is unrelated, or when one or more additional elm
visits furnished on the same day are unrelated) 
Definition: Append modifier FT to report an unrelated evaluation and management (E/M) service during the 
postoperative period of a procedure or on the same day of another E/M service. 
Explanation: Modifier FT indicates that an evaluation and management (E/M) service performed during a postoperative 
period is not related to the operative procedure. Alternatively, appending the modifier may indicate that an E/M service 
is unrelated to a procedure performed on the same date or that the E/M is unrelated to another E/M on the same date. 
Tips: See payer guidelines regarding services that are eligible for modifier FT. For instance, a payer may indicate the 
modifier is appropriate for a critical care E/M service code. 
FX 
X-ray taken using film 
Definition: Append modifier FX to a radiology code to indicate that an X-ray is film. 
Explanation: Modifier FX indicates that the provider took an X-ray using film, as opposed to digital radiography, which 
uses digital X-ray sensors to produce an X-ray image. 
Tips: Append modifier FY to a radiology code to indicate that an X-ray was performed using cassette-based (film)
imaging. 
For any radiology service, be sure to determine if you need to append other modifiers to the radiology code, such
as modifiers LT (left), RT (right), 50 (bilateral), 26 (professional component), or TC (technical component). The
circumstances of each encounter will dictate appropriate modifier usage, along with each payer's requirements. Be sure
to check specific payer guidelines for acceptable modifiers. 
CP.,.. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
521 
FY-G1 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
FY 
X-ray taken using computed radiography technology/cassette-based imaging 
Definition: Append modifier FY to a radiology code to indicate that a digital image was created using cassette-based 
imaging, such as a phosphor imaging plate (IP), rather than conventional film. 
Explanation: Providers are required to append modifier FY to a radiology code when the imaging involves cassette-
based imaging. Medicare payments for cassette-based imaging are reduced by 7% until 2023 and 10% thereafter. 
The imaging plate is reusable and requires no chemicals or darkroom. Cassette-based imaging involves using an 
imaging plate that has a phosphorus layer which, when exposed to X-ray or gamma radiation, captures and stores the 
image. The plate is placed in a scanner, and the image is released when a laser beam is focused on the plate. The 
image data is converted into electrical signals which are digitized and displaced on a monitor for the radiologist to read 
(interpret) the image. The digitized image can be saved like any digital file, and the plate is erased to be reused. 
Tips: Append modifier FY to a radiology code to indicate that imaging was performed using a phosphor imaging plate 
or cassette-based imaging. 
For any radiology service, be sure to determine if you need to append other modifiers to the radiology code, such 
as modifiers LT (left), RT (right), 50 (bilateral), 26 (professional component), or TC (technical component). The 
circumstances of each encounter will dictate appropriate modifier usage, along with each payer's requirements. Be sure 
to check specific payer guidelines for acceptable modifiers. 
GO 
Telehealth services for diagnosis, evaluation, or treatment, of symptoms of an acute stroke 
Definition: Append modifier GO (G-zero) to codes for diagnosis, evaluation, or treatment of an acute stroke via an 
audio or video telecommunications system. 
Explanation: Modifier GO (G-zero) denotes that a provider diagnosed, evaluated, or treated a patient for an acute 
stroke remotely using an audio and/or video telecommunication system. 
Tips: CMS removed restrictions on geographic locations and types of sites where acute stroke telehealth services 
can be furnished, so telehealth services for acute stroke may be provided to patients in both rural and urban areas. 
In addition, mobile stroke units may qualify as originating sites for purposes of diagnosis, evaluation, or treatment of 
symptoms of an acute stroke. Whether an ambulance equipped with an audio and/or video telecommunication system 
qualifies as a mobile stroke unit is uncertain. Check with CMS and payers if uncertain that a code qualifies for this 
modifier. 
G1 
Most recent URR reading of less than 60 
Definition: Append modifier G1 to a code for a hemodialysis patient when the provider measures the urea reduction 
ratio, or URR, and the reading is less than 60. 
Explanation: Modifier G1 illustrates the measurement of the urea reduction ratio, or URR, in a patient undergoing 
hemodialysis for end stage renal disease, or ESRD. When the kidneys fail to perform their function, dialysis becomes 
important to remove waste products from the blood. The provider tests the patient's blood to ensure that the dialysis 
is removing the waste products effectively. The provider takes two blood samples, one at the beginning of treatment 
and the second at the end of dialysis, and compares them. Any reduction in urea due to dialysis is known as the urea 
reduction ratio, or URR. Use G1 to report a reading of less than 60. 
Providers most commonly append this modifier to 90999, Unlisted dialysis procedure, inpatient or outpatient. It is not 
necessary to use the modifier on every code, but facilities should be sure to include the modifier on at least one claim 
line for Medicare. The modifier can affect the processing of the payment of the code. 
Tips: Select the proper modifier from G1 to GS based on the reading. When using modifier G1, you should remember 
that the provider measures the ratio of urea reduction in a patient undergoing hemodialysis, and the reading is less than 
60. 
Watch situations where G1 to GS are not applicable because of the number of dialysis sessions. For example, when 
modifier G6, ESRD patient for whom less than six dialysis sessions have been provided in a month, applies for 
Medicare claims instead of the G1 to GS modifiers due to the number of patient dialysis sessions. 
Medicare requires all hemodialysis claims to show the most recent urea reduction ratio for a patient undergoing dialysis. 
The dialysis facility should monitor the URR monthly in patients who are admitted in the facility. Monitoring of URR in 
home patients should take place at least quarterly. 
522 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
G2-G3 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
G2 
Most recent URR reading of 60 to 64.9 
Definition: Append modifier G2 to a code for hemodialysis patients when the provider measures the urea reduction 
ratio and the reading is 60 to 64.9. 
Explanation: Modifier G2 illustrates the measurement of urea reduction ratio, or URR, in a patient undergoing 
hemodialysis for end stage renal disease, called ESRD. When the kidneys fail to perform their function, dialysis 
becomes important to remove waste products from the blood. The provider tests the patient's blood to ensure that the 
dialysis is removing the waste products effectively. The provider takes two blood samples, one at the beginning and 
the second at the end of dialysis, and compares them. Any reduction in urea due to dialysis is known as urea reduction 
ratio, URR. Use G2 for a reading of 60 to 64.9. 
Tips: Select the proper modifier from G1 to G5 based on the reading. When using modifier G2, you should remember 
that the provider measures the ratio of urea reduction in a patient undergoing hemodialysis, and the reading ranges 
from 60 to 64.9. 
Watch for when G6, ESRD patient for whom less than six dialysis sessions have been provided in a month, applies for 
Medicare claims instead of G1 to G5 based on the number of dialysis sessions. 
Medicare requires all hemodialysis claims to show the most recent urea reduction ratio for a patient undergoing dialysis. 
The dialysis facility should monitor the URR monthly in patients who are admitted in the facility. Monitoring of URR in 
home patients should take place at least quarterly. 
Providers most commonly append this modifier to 90999, Unlisted dialysis procedure, inpatient or outpatient. It is not 
necessary to use the modifier on every claim line, but facilities should be sure to include the modifier on at least one 
revenue code claim line for Medicare. The modifier can affect the processing of the payment of the code. 
G3 
Most recent URR reading of 65 to 69.9 
Definition: Append modifier G3 to a code for hemodialysis patients when the provider measures the urea reduction 
ratio and the reading is 65 to 69.9. 
Explanation: Modifier G3 illustrates the measurement of urea reduction ratio, or URR, in a patient undergoing 
hemodialysis for end stage renal disease, called ESRD. When the kidneys fail to perform their function, dialysis 
becomes important to remove waste products from the blood. The µrovider tests the patient's blood to ensure that the 
dialysis is removing the waste products effectively. The provider takes two blood samples, one at the beginning and 
the second at the end of dialysis, and compares them. Any reduction in urea due to dialysis is known as urea reduction 
ratio, URR. Use G3 for a reading of 65 to 69.9. 
Tips: Select the proper modifier from G1 to G5 based on the reading. When using modifier G3, you should remember 
that the provider measures the ratio of urea reduction in a patient undergoing hemodialysis, and the reading ranges 
from 65 to 65.9. 
Watch for when G6, ESRD patient for whom less than six dialysis sessions have been provided in a month, applies for 
Medicare claims instead of G1 to G5 based on the number of dialysis sessions. 
Medicare requires all hemodialysis claims to show the most recent urea reduction ratio for a patient undergoing dialysis. 
The dialysis facility should monitor the URR monthly in patiECJ:s who are admitted in the facility. Monitoring of URR in 
home patients should take place at least quarterly. 
Providers most commonly append this modifier to 90999, Unlisted dialysis procedure, inpatient or outpatient. It is not 
necessary to use the modifier on every claim line, but facilities should be sure to include the modifier on at least one 
revenue code claim line for Medicare. The modifier can affect the processing of the payment of the code. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
523 
G4-G6 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
G4 
Most recent URR reading of 70 to 74.9 
Definition: Append modifier G4 to a code for hemodialysis patients when the provider measures the urea reduction 
ratio and the reading is 70 to 74.9. 
Explanation: Modifier G4 illustrates the measurement of urea reduction ratio, or URR, in a patient undergoing 
hemodialysis for end stage renal disease, called ESRD. When the kidneys fail to perform their function, dialysis 
becomes important to remove waste products from the blood. The provider tests the patient's blood to ensure that the 
dialysis is removing the waste products effectively. The provider takes two blood samples, one at the beginning and 
the second at the end of dialysis, and compares them. Any reduction in urea due to dialysis is known as urea reduction 
ratio, URR. Use G4 for a reading of 70 to 74.9. 
Tips: Select the proper modifier from G1 to G5 based on the reading. When using modifier G4, you should remember 
that the provider measures the ratio of urea reduction in a patient undergoing hemodialysis, and the reading ranges 
from 70 to 74.9. 
Watch for when G6, ESRD patient for whom less than six dialysis sessions have been provided in a month, applies for 
Medicare claims instead of G1 to G5 based on the number of dialysis sessions. 
Medicare requires all hemodialysis claims to show the most recent urea reduction ratio for a patient undergoing dialysis. 
The dialysis facility should monitor the URR monthly in patients who are admitted in the facility. Monitoring of URR in 
home patients should take place at least quarterly. 
Providers most commonly append this modifier to 90999, Unlisted dialysis procedure, inpatient or outpatient. It is not 
necessary to use the modifier on every claim line, but facilities should be sure to include the modifier on at least one 
revenue code claim line for Medicare. The modifier can affect the processing of the payment of the code. 
GS 
Most recent URR reading of 75 or greater 
Definition: Append modifier G5 to a code for hemodialysis patients when the provider measures the urea reduction 
ratio and the reading is greater than 75. 
Explanation: Modifier G5 illustrates the measurement of urea reduction ratio, or URR, in a patient undergoing 
hemodialysis for end stage renal disease, called ESRD. When the kidneys fail to perform their function, dialysis 
becomes important to remove waste products from the blood. The provider tests the patient's blood to ensure that the 
dialysis is removing the waste products effectively. The provider takes two blood samples, one at the beginning and 
the second at the end of dialysis, and compares them. Any reduction in urea due to dialysis is known as urea reduction 
ratio, URR. Use G5 for a reading greater than 75. 
Tips: Select the proper modifier from G1 to G5 based on the reading. When using modifier G5, you should remember 
that the provider measures the ratio of urea reduction in a patient undergoing hemodialysis, and the reading is greater 
than 75. 
Watch for when G6, ESRD patient for whom less than six dialysis sessions have been provided in a month, applies for 
Medicare claims instead of G1 to G5 based on the number of dialysis sessions. 
Medicare requires all hemodialysis claims to show the most recent urea reduction ratio for a patient undergoing dialysis. 
The dialysis facility should monitor the URR monthly in patients who are admitted in the facility. Monitoring of URR in 
home patients should take place at least quarterly. 
Providers most commonly append this modifier to 90999, Unlisted dialysis procedure, inpatient or outpatient. It is not 
necessary to use the modifier on every claim line, but facilities should be sure to include the modifier on at least one 
revenue code claim line for Medicare. The modifier can affect the processing of the payment of the code. 
G6 
ESRD patient for whom less than six dialysis sessions have been provided in a month 
Definition: Append modifier G6 to a code to show that the patient has had fewer than six sessions of dialysis in a 
month. Use this modifier for patients with end stage renal disease, or ESRD. 
Explanation: Modifier G6 represents that a patient has undergone fewer than six sessions of dialysis in a month for 
ESRD. When the kidneys fail to perform their function, dialysis becomes important to remove waste products from the 
blood. 
Tips: If the provider confirms the patient had dialysis on fewer than six days in a month, modifier G6 applies. 
Watch for when G6 applies for Medicare claims instead of G1 to G5 for urea reduction ratio based on the number of
dialysis sessions. 
Medicare requires a modifier from G1 to G6 for all hemodialysis claims as part of data collection on the most recent
urea reduction ratio for a patient undergoing dialysis. 
The dialysis facility should monitor the URR monthly in patients who are admitted in the facility. Monitoring of URR in 
home patients should take place at least quarterly. 
Providers most commonly append this modifier to 90999, Unlisted dialysis procedure, inpatient or outpatient. It is not 
necessary to use the modifier on every claim line, but facilities should be sure to include the modifier on at least one 
revenue code claim line for Medicare. The modifier can affect the processing of the payment of the code. 
524 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
G7-GA 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
G7 
Pregnancy resulted from rape or incest or pregnancy certified by physician as life threatening 
Definition: Append modifier G7 to an abortion code in cases of pregnancy that result from rape or incest, or when the 
provider confirms the pregnancy is dangerous for the patient's life. 
Explanation: Modifier G7 represents pregnancy due to rape or incest, or pregnancy that may pose a threat to the 
woman's life for reasons such as illness or injury. Medicare covers abortions when the patient's life is in danger, and 
the medical documentation should justify that the pregnancy was a danger to the patient's life. Medicare also covers 
abortions in cases of rape or incest. 
Tips: Check payer requirements for the codes to which modifier G7 applies. Typical codes include induced abortion 
codes 59840 to 59857 and 59866, Multifetal pregnancy reduction. If the provider bills these codes without modifier 
G7, Medicare will not reimburse the claims. Medicare will not reimburse abortions unless the pregnancy is the result 
of rape or incest, or the pregnancy is life threatening due to patient illness or condition, which may be the result of the 
pregnancy. 
GS 
Monitored anesthesia care (MAC) for deep complex, complicated, or markedly invasive surgical procedure 
Definition: Append modifier G8 when the provider performs monitored anesthesia care, called MAC, for a procedure 
that is deep complex, complicated, or distinctly invasive. 
Explanation: Modifier G8 depicts monitored anesthesia care, or MAC, for a patient undergoing an invasive and 
complex surgical procedure. The provider administers MAC during a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. He regularly 
monitors the physiologic functions during the administration of MAC. The medical record should justify the diagnosis 
that corresponds to the administration of monitored anesthesia as well as the complex or particularly invasive nature of 
the surgical procedure. 
Tips: Payers may define the codes the provider may use this modifier with certain anesthesia codes. Examples may 
include only certain anesthesia codes, 00300, 00400, and 00920. Check payer policies for specific codes. 
Providers generally report G8 secondary to modifiers AA, Anesthesia services performed personally by 
anesthesiologist, and QX, CRNA service: with medical direction by a physician. 
You should not use modifier QS, Monitored anesthesia care service, along with G8 because the latter indicates that the 
provider has given MAC. 
G9 
Monitored anesthesia care for patient who has history of severe cardio-pulmonary condition 
Definition: Append modifier G9 when the provider performs monitored anesthesia care, called MAC, for a patient with 
a severe condition relating to the heart and lungs. 
Explanation: Modifier G9 depicts monitored anesthesia care, or MAC, for a patient who has a history of a severe 
cardiopulmonary condition. The provider administers MAC during a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. He regularly 
monitors the physiologic functions during the administration of MAC. The medical record should justify the diagnosis 
that corresponds to the administration of monitored anesthesia as well as the nature of the cardiopulmonary condition. 
Tips: You should report this modifier with anesthesia codes when appropriate for the patient. 
Providers generally report G9 secondary to modifiers AA, Anesthesia service performed personally by anesthesiologist, 
and QX, CRNA service: with medical direction by a physician. You should not use modifier QS, Monitored anesthesia 
care service, along with G9 because the latter indicates that the provider has given MAC. 
GA 
Waiver of liability statement issued as required by payer policy, individual case 
Definition: Append modifier GA to a code when a payer requires the provider to present an advance beneficiary notice, 
or ABN, before the patient receives an item or service the provider expects Medicare not to cover. 
Explanation: The provider appends modifier GA to a code to indicate the patient's receipt of an advance beneficiary 
notice, or ABN, also known as a waiver of liability, for items or services for which the provider believes Medicare will not 
consider reasonable and necessary and thus deny payment. Medicare denial may involve services subject to a local 
coverage determination, or LCD, a denial based on the policies of a particular intermediary or carrier. The intent of the 
ABN is to inform the patient that Medicare certainly or most probably will not pay for an item or service and will assign 
financial responsibility to the patient for the charges. 
Tips: You can append modifier GA with a code even when the patient refuses to sign an ABN. 
Medicare prohibits the routine use of an ABN except for certain services that have a frequency limit on coverage. 
• 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
525 
GB-GF 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
GB 
Claim being resubmitted for payment because it is no longer covered under a global payment demonstration 
Definition: Append modifier GB to a code when the provider resubmits a claim for payment because a global payment 
demonstration. a type of bundling program, does not cover the service anymore. 
Explanation: Modifier GB identifies services for which a provider submits a claim under a global payment 
demonstration and later determines the patient or the service did not qualify for inclusion, so he resubmits the claim 
under the traditional fee for service program. Global payment demonstration projects reimburse a package price for 
a group of services based on the expected costs for an episode of care, as a combined quality improvement and 
cost reduction measure. The original claim may have been a no pay claim, one that identifies services or items for 
informational purposes without expectation of reimbursement. 
Tips: If another modifier defines the services more distinctly, use GB as the secondary modifier. 
Modifier GB is an informational modifier, and the provider may submit it with any HCPCS or CPT® code. 
GC 
This service has been performed in part by a resident under the direction of a teaching physician 
Definition: Append modifier GC to a code when a resident performs any portion of a service under the guidance of a 
teaching provider. 
Explanation: Modifier GC denotes that a resident, a medical graduate working in a teaching facility and under the 
supervision of a teaching provider, performs a billable service. The teaching provider must be present during the 
major part of the service and be readily available for other parts of the service. The medical record must include notes 
from both the resident and the teaching provider, with the teaching provider's notes commenting on the resident's 
documentation, attesting to the resident's findings, correcting or elaborating as necessary, also known as an attestation. 
Both the resident and the teaching provider must sign and date the documentation. 
Tips: Modifier GC is an informational modifier, and the provider may submit it with any CPT® or HCPCS code. 
A cosignature alone does not satisfy CMS guidelines for documenting the presence and extent of involvement of the 
teaching provider. 
You can report a service with modifier GC when the teaching provider assists the resident during an entire procedure 
and reexamines the patient after the procedure, as well. 
Medicare does not consider a lab pathologist as a teaching provider. 
GE 
This service has been performed by a resident without the presence of a teaching physician under the primary 
care exception 
Definition: Append modifier GE to a code when a resident sees a patient in an outpatient, or primary care, setting in 
the absence of a teaching provider. 
Explanation: Modifier GE denotes that the resident renders the services under Medicare's primary care exception rule, 
which reduces the restrictions on the physical presence requirement for teaching providers. Under certain conditions, 
Medicare will pay for the three lowest levels of Evaluation and Management, or E/M, services for outpatients seen by a 
resident without the presence of a teaching provider. The medical record has to demonstrate that the resident observes 
and appropriately documents the patient's present illness and physical examination and follows a plan of care. The 
resident must sign the medical documentation. Although the resident provides the E/M service in the absence of the 
teaching provider, the teaching provider reviews the patient's records and discusses the case with the resident. 
GF 
Non-physician (e.g., nurse practitioner (NP), certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA), certified registered 
nurse (CRN), clinical nurse specialist (CNS), physician assistant (PA)) services in a critical access hospital 
Definition: Append modifier GF to a code when a nonphysician provider performs a service in a critical access hospital. 
Explanation: Modifier GF denotes that a nonphysician provider, such as a nurse practitioner, certified registered nurse 
anesthetist, certified registered nurse, clinical nurse practitioner, or a physician assistant, renders a service in critical 
access hospital, a facility Medicare certifies under different conditions of participation in the Medicare program than an 
acute care facility. The nonphysician provider delivers the service in the absence of a physician provider. The medical 
record must show adequate documentation of the patient's present illness and physical examination and follow a plan 
of care. The nonphysician provider must sign the medical documentation. 
Tips: Modifier GF is an informational modifier, and the provider may submit it with any CPT® or HCPCS codes. 
Medicare reimburses 85 percent of the actual service charges to a non physician provider. 
The guidelines for reporting the services of a certified registered nurse anesthetist, or CRNA, may change, so check 
with your payer for specific information. 
526 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
GG-GJ 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
GG 
Performance and payment of a screening mammogram and diagnostic mammogram on the same patient, same 
day 
Definition: Append modifier GG to a code when the provider performs two distinct mammograms, both screening and 
diagnostic, on a patient on the same date of service. 
Explanation: Modifier GG denotes that the provider performs screening mammography, an X-ray of the breast done 
for early detection of breast cancer, and during that exam detects an abnormality for which he performs diagnostic 
mammography on the same date of service to confirm the presence of cancer or any other defect. The provider does 
not require a separate order from the treating provider to perform the diagnostic mammography. 
Tips: If the provider converts a screening mammography to a diagnostic mammography but does not perform separate 
mammography exams, append to the relevant code modifier GH, Diagnostic mammogram converted from screening 
mammogram on same day. 
Medicare reimburses both screening and diagnostic mammography services as the modifier is for the purpose of 
discovering any abnormality in the breast. 
Medicare denies reimbursement for an add on code if the provider bills it without an appropriate mammography code. 
Both mammography codes with the appropriate add on code should appear on the same claim. 
Also, Medicare does not reimburse the service if the provider performs the second mammography only as a quality 
check or because of a system failure. 
If the screening services are self referred, the provider should give his own national provider identifier, or NPI, and not 
the referring provider's NPI for the service to be reimbursable. 
If the provider takes additional views on the same date of service because of the presence of an implant, payers may 
consider it as diagnostic views done on the same date. 
Payers may restrict the codes the provider may use with this modifier to certain mammography codes. Check payer 
policies for specific codes. 
GH 
Diagnostic mammogram converted from screening mammogram on same day 
Definition: Append modifier GH to a code when the provider performs a single mammogram that begins as a screening 
mammogram but converts it to a diagnostic mammogram. 
Explanation: Modifier GH denotes that the provider converts a screening mammography, an X-ray of the breast done 
for early detection of breast cancer, to a diagnostic mammography in a patient on the same date of service as a single 
exam This may occur if the patient presents for a screening mammogram due to an abnormality, and the provider 
changes the study from screening to diagnostic. The provider does not take any additional views during the exam. 
Tips: Append modifier GH to a single diagnostic mammography code. Medicare will pay for the diagnostic 
mammography only and not the screening mammography. 
If separate mammograms are performed on the same date of service, both screening and diagnostic, due to the 
discovery of an abnormality on a screening mammogram that requires further delineation, for example, report both 
exams and append modifier GG to the add on mammography code. 
Payers may restrict the use of this modifier to certain mammography codes. Check payer policies for specific codes. 
GJ 
"Opt-out" physician or practitioner emergency or urgent service 
Definition: Append modifier GJ to a code when a provider who has elected not to participate in the Medicare program 
renders services to a patient who presents with an emergency situation. 
Explanation: Modifier GJ denotes a service by a provider rendering emergency treatment to a Medicare patient and 
has no personal contract with the patient. The provider must submit the claim to Medicare on the patient's behalf 
and may not bill the patient more than Medicare's limiting charge. Medicare reimburses the patient directly for an 
unassigned claim. To submit an assigned claim, a provider can complete a CMS855 enrollment without impact on 
his opt out status for other services. The medical documentation must justify the emergency or urgent nature of the 
services to the patient. 
Tips: If the opt out provider asks the patient to return for a followup visit, he must ask the patient to sign a personal 
contract for these services in order to charge the patient for services Medicare will not pay. However, if the patient 
requires followup of the emergency care, Medicare would continue to pay until the time the patient no longer requires
such care. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
527 
GK-GN 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
GK 
Reasonable and necessary item/service associated with a GA or GZ modifier 
Definition: Append modifier GK to a code, in addition to modifier GA or GZ, for upgrades to durable medical 
equipment, or DME, items or services that the provider deems medically necessary but exceed medical necessity under 
Medicare's coverage requirements. 
Explanation: The provider appends modifier GK to a code for an item or service associated with modifier GA, Carrier 
judgment Waiver of liability statement issued as required by payer policy, individual case, or GZ, Item or service 
expected to be denied as not reasonable and necessary, such as an upgrade to DME. If the provider expects to bill 
the patient for the difference in the cost, he presents an advance beneficiary notice, or ABN, to the patient and submits 
the claim with both modifiers. Medicare automatically denies the claim line with modifier GA on the basis of medical 
necessity but processes the claim line with modifier GK to allow the provider to bill the usual and customary fee for the 
upgraded items he supplies. Use modifier GZ in association with GK when an ABN is neither obtained nor required. 
Tips: If the provider doesn't intend to charge the patient for the difference in the cost of an upgrade, append modifier 
GL, Medically unnecessary upgrade provided instead of nonupgraded item, no charge, no advance beneficiary notice, 
orABN. 
D o  not use modifier GK for institutional claims that include the use of equipment and supplies, lab and radiology 
services, and other included items or services. 
You should append HCPCS modifiers in order on the claim, with GA or GZ before the use of GK. 
Always give a detailed description of the DME along with the manufacturer and the model number in the claim. 
Individual payers may specify use of modifier KX, Requirements specified in the medical policy have been met, along 
with modifier GK. Check with the payer to be sure. 
Medicare will reject a claim with modifier GK when modifier GA or GZ does not accompany it. 
GL 
Medically unnecessary upgrade provided instead of non-upgraded item, no charge, no advance beneficiary 
notice (ABN) 
Definition: Append modifier GL to a code for an upgrade to durable medical equipment, or DME, items that the 
provider deems medically necessary but exceed medical necessity under Medicare's coverage requirements. The 
provider does not charge the patient for the difference in cost and does not present an advance beneficiary notice, or 
ABN. 
Explanation: Modifier GL denotes that the provider upgrades a DME item but does not plan to charge the patient for 
the difference in the cost. The provider essentially bills Medicare for the cost of a nonupgraded item instead of the item 
he actually provides. The provider adds modifier GL to the HCPCS code that represents the nonupgraded item. 
Tips: Modifier GL does not require submission of an ABN. 
Individual payers may specify use of modifier KX, Requirements specified in the medical policy have been met, along 
with modifier GK. Check with the payer to be sure. 
GM 
Multiple patients on one ambulance trip 
Definition: Append modifier GM to a code for the transport of a patient by an ambulance that transports additional 
patients during the same trip. 
Explanation: Modifier GM denotes the situation in which an ambulance transports multiple patients during a single 
trip. The medical documentation must include the total number of patients and the particulars of each. The provider 
should submit the number of miles traveled by each patient along with the origin and destination modifier in the primary 
position and append modifier GM as the secondary modifier. 
Tips: You should append modifier GM only with ambulance transport claims. 
Append modifier GM even when only one of the transported patients is a Medicare beneficiary. 
GN 
Services delivered under an outpatient speech language pathology plan of care 
Definition: Append modifier GN to a code when the provider renders services that are part of a speech and language 
pathology plan of care for an outpatient. 
Explanation: Mo?ifier GN denotes services that are part of an outpatient speech and language pathology plan of care. 
The prev1der carries ?ut the servife in an outpatient setting. The medical documentation must include a diagnosis code 
that 1nd1cates the patient 1s suffering from a speech disorder. 
Tips: Append modifier GN only with codes on the list of applicable therapy services for speech and language pathology 
and that are part of the plan of care for that patient. 
Medicare pays for services with modifier GN only when the patient receives these services as an outpatient. 
528 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
GO-GS 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
GO 
Services delivered under an outpatient occupational therapy plan of care 
Definition: Append modifier GO to a code when the provider renders services that are part of an occupational therapy 
plan of care for an outpatient. 
Explanation: Modifier GO denotes services that are part of an outpatient occupational therapy plan of care. The 
provider carries out the service in an outpatient setting. The medical documentation must include a diagnosis code that 
is consistent with a condition that requires occupational therapy. 
Tips: Append modifier GO only with codes on the list of applicable therapy services for occupational therapy and that 
are part of the plan of care for that patient. 
Medicare pays for services with modifier GO only when the patient receives these services as an outpatient. 
GP 
Services delivered under an outpatient physical therapy plan of care 
Definition: Append modifier GP to a code when the provider renders services that are part of a physical therapy plan of 
care for an outpatient. 
Explanation: Modifier GP denotes services that are part of an outpatient physical therapy plan of care. The provider 
carries out the service in an outpatient setting. The medical documentation must include a diagnosis code that is 
consistent with a condition that requires physical therapy. 
Tips: Append modifier GP only with codes on the list of applicable therapy services for physical therapy and that are 
part of the plan of care for that patient. 
Medicare pays for services with modifier GP only when the patient receives these services as an outpatient. 
GQ 
Via asynchronous telecommunications system 
Definition: Append modifier GQ for services rendered to a patient via an asynchronous telecommunications system, 
one that does not involve live two way communication. 
Explanation: Modifier GQ denotes healthcare services provided via an asynchronous communication method. 
Asynchronous communication does not take place in real time. An example of delivery of a service via asynchronous 
communication includes a provider at a distant location, even in another state, who receives X-ray images transmitted 
across a secure network and then transmits the report of his reading of the images for later review by the patient's 
primary care provider. An exchange of email between a patient and a provider also constitute asynchronous 
telecommunication services. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the GQ modifier. 
GR 
This service was performed in whole or in part by a resident in a department of veterans affairs medical 
Centers or clinic, supervised in accordance with VA policy 
Definition: Append modifier GR to codes for services rendered to a patient by a resident provider in a Veterans 
Administration, or VA, facility. 
Explanation: Modifier GR denotes services rendered in a VA facility by a resident provider, a medical graduate working 
under the supervision of an attending provider. The VA facility appends modifier GR to the appropriate HCPCS code for 
the service and submits the claim under the name of the attending provider. 
Tips: Modifier GR on VA claims has the same consequences as modifier GC, This service has been performed in 
part by a resident under the direction of a teaching physician, and modifier GE, This service has been performed by a 
resident without the presence of a teaching physician under the primary care exception. 
VA claims do not use modifier GC, This service has been performed in part by a resident under the direction of a 
teaching physician, or modifier GE, This service has been performed by a resident without the presence of a teaching 
physician under the primary care exception modifiers. 
GS 
Dosage of erythropoietin stimulating agent has been reduced and maintained in response to hematocrit or 
hemoglobin level 
Definition: Append modifier GS to a code when the provider reduces and maintains the dosage of erythropoietin, 
a hormone that stimulates the production of red blood cells, in response to an elevation in the level of hematocrit or 
hemoglobin in a patient with anemia of chronic kidney disease. 
Explanation: Modifier QS denotes a reduction in the dose of erythropoietin, or EPO, in response to an elevation in 
hematocrit, which measures the volume of red blood cells, or hemoglobin, which measures the amount of hemoglobin, 
a protein in red blood cells, for the treatment of anemia of chronic kidney disease. Medicare closely monitors the 
administration of erythropoietin stimulating agents, or ESAs, which at higher levels than necessary are ineffective and 
lead to complications, such as blood clots. 
Tips: Payers may designate only specific codes the provider may use with this modifier, such as injection codes J0881, 
J0882, J0885, and 04081. Check payer policies for specific codes. 
Reimbursement depends upon the dosage reported, but Medicare automatically reduces reimbursement by 25 percent 
if the provider submits the claim without modifier GS. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
529 
GT-GX 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
GT 
Via interactive audio and video telecommunication systems 
Definition: Append modifier GT for telehealth, the use of an interactive audio and video communication system 
between a distant provider and the patient to execute a plan of care. 
Explanation: Modifier GT denotes a telehealth system, real time audiovisual conferencing between a patient and 
provider, in which a provider at a distant site provides healthcare services for a patient at a different location, including 
an examination. The patient must be an active participant in a telehealth visit, but it is not necessary for the provider to 
personally perform all portions of a telehealth service, as his clinical staff may provide some services. 
Tips: Check payer policy to determine whether the payer allows use of modifier GT. For instance, the payer may limit 
use of the modifier to certain settings. 
GU 
Waiver of liability statement issued as required by payer policy, routine notice 
Definition: Append modifier GU to a code when a payer requires the provider to present an advance beneficiary notice, 
or ABN, as a routine notice before the patient receives an item or service the provider expects Medicare not to cover. 
Explanation: Modifier GU indicates the patient's receipt of an advance beneficiary notice, or ABN, also known as 
a waiver of liability, as a routine notice for items or services that the provider believes Medicare will not consider 
reasonable and necessary and thus deny payment. The intent of the ABN is to inform the patient that Medicare certainly 
or most probably will not pay for an item or service and will assign financial responsibility to the patient for the charges. 
Medicare generally prohibits routine notices except for items and services that are experimental, subject to frequency 
limitations for coverage, or always denied for medical necessity. Durable medical equipment and supplies without a 
supplier number also fall under this exception. 
Tips: For an ABN issued for a specific item or service, rather than as a routine notice, report modifier GA, Waiver of 
liability statement issued as required by payer policy, individual case. 
GV 
Attending physician not employed or paid under arrangement by the patient's hospice provider 
Definition: A provider appends modifier GV to report that the patient's attending physician, is not an employee, or is not 
volunteering at the hospice provider of the patient. The attending physician may be a doctor specialized in a particular 
field, or a nurse practitioner. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier GV when a provider performs a service related to the problem for which a 
patient was admitted into hospice. This provider is not a part of the hospice provider or their employee and provides 
services independently of the hospice. 
Tips: A patient, who opts for hospice coverage, waives his Medicare Part B payment for any treatment of terminal 
illness during the hospice period. However, there is an exception for the provider who attends the patient, referred to as 
attending physician in the modifier descriptor, who is not an employee of the hospice and is in no way attached to the 
hospice. The attending provider may also include a nurse practitioner, besides specific specialty providers. 
GW 
Service not related to the hospice patient's terminal condition 
Definition: A provider appends modifier GW to identify a service that the provider renders to a patient that is not related 
to the patient's terminal condition. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier GW when the provider delivers a service, not related to the problem for 
which the patient was admitted into the hospice. This provider is not a part of the hospice or an employee of the 
hospice and provides the services independently. 
Tips: For Medicare payment, report modifier GW, if the patient's condition for hospice care is not related to the service. 
GX 
Notice of liability issued, voluntary under payer policy 
Definition: Append modifier GX to report issuance of a voluntary, or optional, advance beneficiary notice, or ABN, for 
any service not covered. 
Explanation: Modifier GX indicates the patient's receipt of a notice of liability, usually in the form of an advance 
beneficiary notice, or ABN, that is not required by payer policy, to let the patient know of his financial responsibility for 
items or services that Medicare never covers. The provider can bill the patient for items and services not subject to 
Medicare coverage whether or not the provider issues an ABN. 
Tips: Medicare reimburses modifier GX only if it is used secondary to modifier TS, Followup service, or modifier GY, 
Item or service statutorily excluded, does not meet the definition of any Medicare benefit, or for nonMedicare insurers,
is not a contract benefit. 
If the patient has a secondary insurance that pays for the service, Medicare denies the reimbursement so that the 
provider can then submit the claim to the second payer. 
Medicare denies the reimbursement of modifier GX if the service is not covered by medical necessity. 
530 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
GY-HD 
Mod 
GY 
GZ 
H9 
HA 
HB 
HC 
HD 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
Item or service statutorily excluded, does not meet the definition of any Medicare benefit or, for Non-Medicare 
insurers, is not a contract benefit 
Definition: Append modifier GY to report services and supplies excluded by Medicare regulations or which are not a 
contract benefit for other payers. 
Explanation: Modifier GY denotes items or services not covered by Medicare under any circumstance, and the 
provider expects a denial. Medicare does not require the provider to present an advance beneficiary notice, or ABN, 
to bill the patient for these items or services. Some examples of items and services statutorily excluded by Medicare 
include acupuncture, cosmetic surgery, hearing aids, and most types of dental care. 
Tips: Modifier GY indicates that a particular service is not covered by Medicare. 
There is no need to submit an ABN to use modifier GY. 
You should not use modifier GY with add on codes. 
Item or service expected to be denied as not reasonable and necessary 
Definition: Append modifier GZ when the provider expects a Medicare denial for an item or service as not a medical 
necessity but does not provide the patient with an advance beneficiary notice, or ABN. 
Explanation: Modifier GZ denotes an item or service for which the provider expects Medicare to deny reimbursement 
as not meeting the requirements of Medicare for medical necessity but for which the provider does not present the 
patient with an ABN. The provider may not bill the patient for the denied charges but can request a review. 
Tips: This is an informational modifier. Medicare processes claims with modifier GZ just like other claims. 
If the provider appends both modifier GZ and modifier GA, Waiver of liability statement issued as required by payer 
policy, individual case, on the same claim line, it is invalid and the claim is not reimbursable. 
Court-ordered 
Definition: Append modifier H9 to a code to indicate that a particular service was ordered by the court. 
Explanation: Modifier H9 denotes any service a patient undergoes by court order, such as a psychiatric evaluation, 
substance abuse treatment, foster care services, and others. 
Tips: For court ordered medical testimony, append modifier H9 to 99075, Medical testimony. 
Child/adolescent program 
Definition: Append modifier HA to designate the delivery of services through a program specifically designed for 
children and or adolescents. 
Explanation: Modifier HA denotes services a provider renders to a child or adolescent as part of a program designed 
specifically for children and or adolescents. Medicare does not cover this modifier, but Medicaid programs typically 
require modifier HA to indicate services provided to a child or adolescent. Specific use of the HA modifier may vary 
depending upon the program. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the HA modifier. 
Adult program, non-geriatric 
Definition: Append modifier HB to designate the delivery of services to adult individuals, not including the elderly, as 
part of a care program for adults. 
Explanation: Modifier HB denotes services rendered to an adult participant a medical or psychiatric care program 
designed for adults. These include programs funded by Medicaid and other agencies. Use of the HB modifier may vary 
depending upon the program. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the HB modifier. 
Adult program, geriatric 
Definition: Append modifier HC to designate services given to adult participants in a care program specifically 
designed for the elderly. 
Explanation: Modifier HC denotes services rendered to adults in a geriatric medical or psychiatric care program. 
These include programs funded by Medicaid and other agencies. Use of the HC modifier may vary depending upon the 
program. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the HC modifier. 
Pregnant/parenting women's program 
Definition: A provider appends modifier HD to services designed for pregnant women or women with dependent 
children. 
Explanation: A provider appends this modifier to identify the services that he provides as a part of a program for 
.
women who are pregnant or women who have children. The services may include treatment for postpartum depression 
screening, or antepartum visits as well as alcohol and or drug detoxification, and behavioral health. 
Tips: Modifier HD is not payable by Medicare. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
531 
HE-HK 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
HE 
Mental health program 
Definition: Append modifier HE when the provider provides a particular service through a program specifically 
designed for the provision of mental health services. 
Explanation: Modifier HE denotes a service provided to a participant in a mental health services program, including 
those administered by state and local agencies. Use of the HE modifier may vary depending upon the program. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the HE modifier. 
HF 
Substance abuse program 
Definition: Append modifier HF when the provider performs services for a participant in a substance abuse program. 
Explanation: Modifier HF denotes services provided to a participant in a substance abuse program. Specific use of the 
HF modifier varies depending upon the program and its sponsoring agency and payer. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the HF modifier. 
HG 
Opioid addiction treatment program 
Definition: Append modifier HG when the provider performs services for a participant in an opioid addiction treatment 
program. 
Explanation: Modifier HG denotes services provided to a participant in an opioid addiction treatment program, 
including long term residential programs, outpatient programs, and methadone clinics. Specific use of the HG modifier 
varies depending upon the program and its sponsoring agency and payer. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the HG modifier. 
HH 
Integrated mental health/substance abuse program 
Definition: Append modifier HH when the provider performs services for a participant in a combined mental health and 
substance abuse program. 
Explanation: Modifier HH denotes services provided to a participant in an integrated mental health and substance 
abuse program, including long term residential programs, outpatient programs, and others. Specific use of the HH 
modifier varies depending upon the program and its sponsoring agency and payer. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the HH modifier. 
HI 
Integrated mental health and intellectual disability/developmental disabilities program 
Definition: Append modifier HI when the provider performs services for a participant in a program specifically for 
individuals with intellectual and or developmental disabilities. 
Explanation: Modifier HI denotes services provided to a participant in an intellectual disability and or developmental 
disabilities program. Specific use of the HI modifier varies depending upon the program and its sponsoring agency and 
payer. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the HI modifier. 
HJ 
Employee assistance program 
Definition: Append modifier HJ when the provider performs services for a participant in an employee assistance 
program. 
Explanation: Modifier HJ denotes services provided to a participant in an employee assistance program, or EAP. 
Specific use of the HJ modifier varies depending upon the EAP and its sponsoring agency and payer, which may be a 
state Medicaid program. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require or are eligible for the HJ modifier. 
HK 
Specialized mental health programs for high-risk populations 
Definition: Append modifier HK when the provider performs services for a participant in a mental health program 
designed for groups of people who are at greater risk for mental illness. 
Explanation: Modifier HK denotes services provided to individuals who participate in a specialized mental health 
program for high risk populations, such as the elderly, low income families, substance abusers, and people with a 
history of mental illness. Specific use of the HK modifier varies depending upon the program and its sponsoring agency
and payer. 
Tips: See payer guidelines for specific codes that require the HK modifier. 
532 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
HL-HP 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
HL 
Intern 
Definition: Append modifier HL to the code when an intern performs a behavioral health service. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider is an intern. The 
condition of the patient may require an intern to render the service. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HL through HP identify the level of education of a provider who performs psychological or 
psychiatric services. These codes are not covered by Medicare, but some carriers may base payment for services on 
the provider's education level. 
HM 
Less than bachelor degree level 
Definition: Append modifier HM to the code when a provider with less than a bachelor's degree level of education 
performs a behavioral health service. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider holds less than a 
bachelor's degree level of education. The condition of the patient may require a provider with less than a bachelor's 
degree level of education to render the service. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HL through HP identify the level of education of a provider who performs psychological or 
psychiatric services. These codes are not covered by Medicare, but some carriers may base payment for services on 
the provider's education level. 
HN 
Bachelor's degree level 
Definition: Append modifier HN to the code when a provider who holds a bachelor's degree performs a behavioral 
health service. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider holds a bachelor's 
degree. The condition of the patient may require a provider with a bachelor's degree level of education to render the 
service. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HL through HP identify the level of education of a provider who performs psychological or 
psychiatric services. These codes are not covered by Medicare, but some carriers may base payment for services on 
the provider's education level. 
HO 
Master's degree level 
Definition: Append modifier HO to the bill for any behavioral health service by a provider with a master's degree. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider holds a master's 
degree. The condition of the patient may require the provider of master's degree level to render the service. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HL through HP identify the level of education of the provider who performs psychological or 
psychiatric services. These codes are not covered by Medicare, but some carriers do base payment for services on the 
provider's education level. 
If the provider is an intern, use modifier HL, Intern. 
If the provider holds less than a bachelor's degree, append modifier HM, Less than bachelor degree level. 
If the provider holds a bachelor's degree, append modifier HN, Bachelors degree level. 
If the provider is of a doctoral level, use modifier HP, Doctoral level. 
You should append modifier HO with the code H2011, Crisis intervention service, per 15 minutes. This code includes 
crisis intervention in an emergency setting for patients and the families of patients who exhibit extreme mental duress 
with disturbed thoughts, mood, or behavior. 
HP 
Doctoral level 
Definition: Append modifier HP to a bill for any behavioral health service that a provider with a doctoral degree, e.g., 
PhD, provides to the patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider holds a doctoral level 
degree, i.e., PhD. 
The medical documentation should justify the treatment by a provider who holds a doctoral degree. The condition of the 
patient may require the provider of doctoral level to render the service. 
The doctoral level provider offers services to improve the mental health of the patient. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HL through HP identify the level of education of the provider who performs psychological or
psychiatric services. These codes are not covered by Medicare, but some carriers do base payment for services on
the provider's education level. When using the modifier HP, you should remember that the provider, who renders the
service for behavioral health, must be of doctoral level. 
If the provider is an intern, use modifier HL, Intern. 
If the provider holds less than a bachelor's degree, append modifier HM, Less than bachelor degree level. 
If the provider holds a bachelor's degree, append modifier HN, Bachelors degree level. 
If the provider is of a masters degree level, use modifier HO, Masters degree level. 
CPT"' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
533 
HQ-HT 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
HQ 
Group setting 
Definition: Append modifier HQ to a service when the provider renders service for behavioral care to patients in a 
group setting. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider rendered the 
behavioral health services in a group setting. 
The medical documentation should justify the treatment of the patients in a group setting by a provider who is not a 
physician. The patient's condition may necessitate the service for behavioral healthcare. 
The provider offers this service to improve the mental and behavioral health of the patient in a group setting. 
Tips: You should append modifier HQ with codes that include services such as comprehensive community support, 
psychosocial rehabilitation, family training, developmental therapy, or group supported living. 
HR 
Family/couple with client present 
Definition: Append modifier HR to a service in which the provider renders therapy to the family or couples in the 
presence of a client. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider offers therapy to a 
family or couple in the presence of a client. 
The medical documentation must justify the mental health therapy for the family or couple with the client present. The 
client refers to the patient who requires the therapy. The provider offers mental health therapy to the patient in the 
presence of his family. 
The provider renders this service to improve the mental and behavioral health of the patient. 
Tips: If the patient is not present at the therapy session, use modifier HS. 
You should append modifier HR to the services that include services such as mental health therapy, psychiatry, activity 
therapy, or other health services. 
HS 
Family/couple without client present 
Definition: Append modifier HR to a service in which the provider renders therapy to the family or couple in the 
absence of a client. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider met with the family or 
partner of a client without the client present. 
The medical documentation must justify the mental health therapy of the families or couple in the absence of a client. 
The client refers to the patient who needs the therapy. 
The provider renders this service to improve the mental and behavioral health of the patient. 
Tips: If the patient is present for the therapy session, use the modifier HR, Family or couple with client present. 
You should append modifier HS to the services that include services such as mental health therapy, psychiatry, activity 
therapy, or other health services. 
HT 
Multi-disciplinary team 
Definition: Append modifier HT to a service when a multidisciplinary team renders service for behavioral care to the 
patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that a team of providers with different 
areas of expertise treated the patient. 
The medical documentation should justify the treatment of the patients by a multidisciplinary team of providers, who are 
not physicians. The patient's condition may necessitate the service for behavioral healthcare. The multidisciplinary team 
refers to the group of individuals from different fields and come together for assessment and consultations of patients. 
The providers offer this service to improve the mental and behavioral health of the patient in a multidisciplinary team. 
Tips: You should append modifier HT with codes that include services such as comprehensive community support, 
psychosocial rehabilitation, family training, developmental therapy, or group supported living. 
534 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
HU 
Funded by child welfare agency 
HU-HW 
Definition: Append modifier HU to the service when the provider receives funds from a child welfare agency for therapy 
provided to a patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider receives funds from a 
child welfare agency for therapy that he provides patients. 
The medical documentation must validate that the child welfare agency funds the treatment service for the patient. It is 
the agency that arranges the financing for the therapy that the patient undergoes. 
The provider utilizes the resources from a child welfare agency and offers mental and behavioral healthcare to the 
patient. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HU through HZ identify government and other agency funding for mental health services. When 
using the modifier HU, you should remember that the child welfare agency funds the service. 
If the state addictions agency funds the service code, use modifier HV, Funded state addictions agency. 
If the provider receives funds from state mental health agency, use modifier HW, Funded by state mental health agency. 
If the county or local agency finances the service code, append modifier HX, Funded by county or local agency. 
If the juvenile justice agency offers money for the service code, append modifier HY, Funded by juvenile justice agency. 
If the criminal justice agency funds the service code, use modifier HZ, Funded by criminal justice agency. 
HV 
Funded state addictions agency 
Definition: Append modifier HV to the service when the provider receives funds from a state addictions agency, to offer 
therapy to the patients. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider receives funds from a 
state addictions agency for therapy that he offers patients. 
The medical documentation must validate that the state addictions agency funds the treatment service for the patient. It 
is the agency that arranges the financing for the therapy that the patient undergoes. 
The provider utilizes the resources from a state addictions agency and offers mental and behavioral healthcare to the 
patient. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HU through HZ identify government and other agency funding for mental health services. When 
using the modifier HV, you should remember that the state addictions agency funds the service. 
If the child welfare agency funds the service code, use modifier HU, Funded by child welfare agency. 
If the provider receives funds from state mental health agency, use modifier HW, Funded by state mental health agency. 
If the county or local agency finances the service code, append modifier HX, Funded by county or local agency. 
If the juvenile justice agency offers money for the service code, append modifier HY, Funded by juvenile justice agency. 
If the criminal justice agency funds the service code, use modifier HZ, Funded by criminal justice agency. 
HW 
Funded by state mental health agency 
Definition: Append modifier HW to the service when the provider receives funds from a state mental health agency to 
provide therapy for a patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider receives funds from a 
state mental health agency for therapy that he provides patients. 
The medical documentation must validate that the state mental health agency funds the treatment service for the 
patient. It is the agency that arranges the financing for the therapy that the patient undergoes. 
The provider utilizes the resources from state mental health agency and offers mental and behavioral healthcare to the 
patient. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HU through HZ identify government and other agency funding for mental health services. When 
using the modifier HW, you should remember that the state mental health agency funds the service. 
If the child welfare agency funds the service code, use modifier HU, Funded by child welfare agency. 
If the state addictions agency funds the service code, use modifier HV, Funded state addictions agency. 
If the county or local agency finances the service code, append modifier HX, Funded by county or local agency. 
If the juvenile justice agency offers money for the service code, append modifier HY, Funded by juvenile justice agency. 
If the criminal justice agency funds the service code, use modifier HZ, Funded by criminal justice agency. 
CPP is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
535 
HX - HZ 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
HX 
Funded by county/local agency 
Definition: Append modifier HX to the service when the provider receives funds from a county or local agency to 
provide therapy to a patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider receives funds from a 
county or local agency for therapy that he provides patients. 
The medical documentation must validate that the county or local agency funds the treatment service for the patient. It 
is the agency that arranges the financing for the therapy that the patient undergoes. 
The provider utilizes the resources from county or local agency and offers mental and behavioral healthcare to the 
patient. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HU through HZ identify government and other agency funding for mental health services. When 
using the modifier HX, you should remember that the county or local agency funds the service. 
If the child welfare agency funds the service code, use modifier HU, Funded by child welfare agency. 
If the state addictions agency funds the service code, use modifier HV, Funded state addictions agency. 
If the provider receives funds from state mental health agency, use modifier HW, Funded by state mental health agency. 
If the juvenile justice agency offers money for the service code, append modifier HY, Funded by juvenile justice agency. 
If the criminal justice agency funds the service code, use modifier HZ, Funded by criminal justice agency. 
HY 
Funded by juvenile justice agency 
Definition: Append modifier HY to the service when the provider receives funds from a juvenile justice agency to 
provide therapy to a patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider receives funds from a 
juvenile justice agency for therapy that he provides patients. 
The medical documentation must validate that the juvenile justice agency funds the treatment service for the patient. It 
is the agency that arranges the financing for the therapy that the patient undergoes. 
The provider utilizes the resources from juvenile justice agency and offers mental and behavioral healthcare to the 
patient. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HU through HZ identify government and other agency funding for mental health services. When 
using the modifier HY, you should remember that the juvenile justice agency funds the service. 
If the child welfare agency funds the service code, use modifier HU, Funded by child welfare agency. 
If the state addictions agency funds the service code, use modifier HV, Funded state addictions agency. 
If the provider receives funds from state mental health agency, use modifier HW, Funded by state mental health agency. 
If the county or local agency finances the service code, append modifier HX, Funded by county or local agency. 
If the criminal justice agency funds the service code, use modifier HZ, Funded by criminal justice agency. 
HZ 
Funded by criminal justice agency 
536 
Definition: Append modifier HZ to the service when the provider receives funds from the criminal justice agency to 
provide therapy to a patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a behavioral health service code to show that the provider receives funds from a 
criminal justice agency for therapy that he provides patients. 
The medical documentation must validate that the criminal justice agency funds the treatment service for the patient. It 
is the agency that arranges the financing for the therapy that the patient undergoes. 
The provider utilizes the resources from criminal justice agency and offers mental and behavioral healthcare to the 
patient. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers HU through HZ identify government and other agency funding for mental health services. When 
using the modifier HZ, you should remember that the criminal justice agency funds the service. 
If the child welfare agency funds the service code, use modifier HU, Funded by child welfare agency. 
If the state addictions agency funds the service code, use modifier HV, Funded state addictions agency. 
If the provider receives funds from state mental health agency, use modifier HW, Funded by state mental health agency. 
If the county or local agency finances the service code, append modifier HX, Funded by county or local agency. 
If the juvenile justice agency offers money for the service code, append modifier HY, Funded by juvenile justice agency. 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Jl -J3 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
J1 
Competitive acquisition program no-pay submission for a prescription number 
Definition: Providers enrolled in the Competitive Acquisition Program, or CAP, for drugs and biologicals append 
modifier J1 to the code for a drug, along with number of prescriptions. 
Explanation: The medical documentation should justify the number of prescriptions of a drug that the provider 
administers to the patient. Modifier J1 indicates that the drug is a no pay item and the provider obtains it through CAP. 
This reflects that the patient does not pay for the drug. 
Competitive Acquisition Program refers to a program in which the provider buys and bills for certain drugs and 
biologicals obtained from approved CAP vendors and administer them to the beneficiary patient. 
Although this modifier is still active, the CAP program was suspended at the end of 2008. 
Tips: When using modifier J1, the provider who prescribes the drug must be enrolled in the Competitive Acquisition 
Program. 
You can combine the modifier J1 with modifier J2, Competitive Acquisition Program, restocking of emergency drugs 
after emergency administration, on the same line. 
The CAP is an alternative to the average sales price, or ASP, methodology for acquiring certain Part B drugs 
administered in physicians' offices. Participating CAP providers must obtain all CAP drugs from an Approved CAP 
Vendor. Drugs that are not available through the CAP can be purchased through the ASP methodology. The CAP 
program was suspended on December 31, 2008. 
J2 
Competitive acquisition program, restocking of emergency drugs after emergency administration 
Definition: Providers enrolled in the Competitive Acquisition Program, or CAP, for drugs and biologicals append 
modifier J2 when the provider restocks drugs administered in an emergency situation. 
Explanation: The medical documentation should justify that the patient had an immediate requirement for the drug, 
which the provider administers to the patient. Modifier J2 indicates that the provider needs to restock the emergency 
drugs for when the vendor cannot deliver the drug on time or when an urgent need for the drug occurs. 
Competitive Acquisition Program refers to a program in which the provider buys and bills for certain drugs and 
biologicals obtained from approved CAP vendors and administer them to the beneficiary patient. 
Although this modifier is still active, the CAP program was suspended at the end of 2008. 
Tips: When using modifier J2, the provider who prescribes the drug must be enrolled in the competitive acquisition 
program. 
You can combine the modifier J2 with modifier J 1, Competitive acquisition program no pay submission for a prescription 
number, on the same line. 
The CAP is an alternative to the average sales price, or ASP, methodology for acquiring certain Part B drugs 
administered in physicians' offices. Participating CAP providers must obtain all CAP drugs from an Approved CAP 
Vendor. Drugs that are not available through the CAP can be purchased through the ASP methodology. The CAP 
program was suspended on December 31, 2008. 
J3 
Competitive acquisition program (CAP), drug not available through CAP as written, reimbursed under average 
sales price methodology 
Definition: Append modifier J3 when the provider is enrolled in the Competitive Acquisition Program, or CAP, for drugs 
and biologicals, but the drug is not available from a CAP vendor; reimbursement will be made using the average sales 
price, or ASP, methodology. 
Explanation: The medical documentation should justify that the drug is not available from the approved CAP vendor, 
and the CAP enrolled provider orders and purchases the drug or biological from a source other than the approved CAP 
vendor. 
Competitive Acquisition Program refers to a program in which the provider buys and bills for certain drugs and 
biologicals obtained from approved CAP vendors and administer them to the beneficiary patient. 
Although this modifier is still active, the CAP program was suspended at the end of 2008. 
Tips: When using modifier J3, the provider who prescribes the drug must be enrolled in the Competitive Acquisition 
Program. 
You cannot combine modifier J3 with modifier J1, Competitive Acquisition Program no pay submission for a 
prescription number, or modifier J2, Competitive Acquisition Program, restocking of emergency drugs after emergency 
administration, on the same line. 
If the provider orders the drug from an alternate method, i.e., other than the approved CAP vendor, and the patient is a 
primary Medicare beneficiary, use modifier M2, Medicare secondary payer, MSP. 
The CAP is an alternative to the average sales price, or ASP, methodology for acquiring certain Part B drugs 
administered in physicians' offices. Participating CAP physicians must obtain all CAP drugs from an Approved CAP 
Vendor. Drugs that are not available through the CAP can be purchased through the ASP methodology. The CAP 
program was suspended on December 31, 2008. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
537 
J4-JA 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
J4 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program that is furnished by a hospital upon discharge 
Definition: Append modifier J4 when the provider supplies durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and 
supplies, or DMEPOS, to a Medicare patient upon discharge from the hospital. Report this modifier only if the patient's 
permanent residence is in a competitive bidding area, or CBA. 
Explanation: Modifier J4 indicates that a Medicare patient received DMEPOS, such as a walker or related accessories, 
upon discharge from the hospital. Patients may use the equipment in their homes, since part A payment for inpatient 
hospital services includes the payment for these items. 
The competitive bidding program covers the changes for certain durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and 
supplies for payment by Medicare to the suppliers. It converts outdated prices to lower and more accurate prices. 
Tips: When using modifier J4, the provider who offers the DMEPOS to the patient on discharge from the hospital 
cannot be a contract supplier. 
Providers most commonly append this modifier to HCPCS codes that refer to the use of durable medical equipment. 
Use the modifier J4 if the patient, who receives the DMEPOS, permanently resides in a competitive bidding area, even 
if the provider who supplies the equipment is outside the competitive bidding area. 
JS 
Off-the-shelf orthotic subject to dmepos competitive bidding program that is furnished as part of a physical 
therapist or occupational therapist professional service 
Definition: Append modifier J5 when the provider supplies an off-the-shelf orthotic subject to the Medicare Durable 
Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS) Competitive Bidding Program. Report this modifier 
when the orthotic is furnished as part of a physical therapist or occupational therapist professional service. 
Explanation: Modifier J5 indicates that a Medicare patient received an off-the-shelf orthotic as a part of a physical 
therapist or occupational therapist professional service. Off-the-shelf orthotics are prefabricated supplies that require 
minimal self-adjustment to fit the patient and ensure that the treatment goals are met. Examples are certain leg, arm, 
back, and neck braces. 
The orthotic must be subject to the DMEPOS Competitive Bidding Program for the modifier to apply. Under the 
program, certain items are subject to competitive bidding, and Medicare awards contracts to suppliers who offer the 
best price and meet quality and financial standards. 
Tips: Medicare identifies the specific off-the-shelf (OTS) orthotic codes included in a competitive bidding program. 
JA 
Administered intravenously 
Definition: CMS encourages providers to append modifier JA to all intravenous injection codes, but especially when 
the provider administers erythropoiesis stimulating agents, or ESAs, intravenously to patients with end stage renal 
disease, or ESRD. Modifier JA is informational and does not affect payment. 
Explanation: Use modifier JA to report the administration of drugs covered by HCPCS intravenous injection codes. 
CMS encourages providers who intravenously administer erythropoiesis stimulating agents to patients with end stage 
renal disease to append this modifier for tracking purposes. 
Any claim for erythropoiesis stimulating agents or ESA administration, ESRD facilities must include the hemoglobin 
and or hematocrit values, the route of administration using the JA or JB modifier code, and the KW, calculated using a 
specified formula, to indicate the adequacy of dialysis. 
When the kidneys fail to function, the patient undergoes dialysis to remove waste products from the blood. The provider 
collects a blood sample to measure the level of hemoglobin and hematocrit before the dialysis treatment. If the patient 
is found to be anemic, the provider administers intravenous or subcutaneous ESAs. 
ESAs stimulate red blood cell production in patients with anemia that results from conditions such as chronic kidney 
failure, chemotherapy, and other treatments. It includes agents like epoetin alfa and darbepoetin alfa. 
Tips: If the provider uses subcutaneous route to administer the ESAs, append modifier JB, Administered 
subcutaneously, with the code. 
Failure to include the JA or JB modifier for ESA route of administration when reporting Q4081, Injection, epoetin alfa, 
100 units, for ESRD on dialysis, or J0882, Injection, darbepoetin alfa, 1 mcg, for ESRD on dialysis, on a 72X type of bill 
will result in that bill being returned to the provider. 
538 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
JB-JD 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
JB 
Administered subcutaneously 
Definition: CMS encourages providers to append modifier JB to all subcutaneous injection codes, but especially when 
the provider administers erythropoiesis stimulating agents, or ESAs, intravenously to patients with end stage renal 
disease, or ESRD. Modifier JB is informational and does not affect payment. 
Explanation: Use modifier JB to report the administration of drugs covered by HCPCS subcutaneous injection codes. 
CMS encourages providers who subcutaneously administer erythropoiesis stimulating agents to patients with end stage 
renal disease to append this modifier for tracking purposes. 
Any claim for erythropoiesis stimulating agents or ESA administration, ESRD facilities must include the hemoglobin 
and or hematocrit values, the route of administration using the JA or JB modifier code, and the KW, calculated using a 
specified formula, to indicate the adequacy of di.alysis. 
When the kidneys fail to function, the patient undergoes dialysis to remove waste products from the blood. The provider 
collects a blood sample to measure the level of hemoglobin and hematocrit before the dialysis treatment. If the patient 
is found to be anemic, the provider administers intravenous or subcutaneous ESAs. 
ESAs stimulate red blood cell production in patients with anemia that results from conditions such as chronic kidney 
failure, chemotherapy, and other treatments. It includes agents like epoetin alfa and darbepoetin alfa. 
Tips: If the provider uses intravenous route to administer the ESAs, append modifier JA, Administered intravenously, 
with the code. 
Failure to include the JA or JB modifier for ESA route of administration when reporting 04081, Injection, epoetin alfa, 
100 units, for ESRD on dialysis, or J0882, Injection, darbepoetin alfa, 1 microgram, for ESRD on dialysis, on a 72X type 
of bill will result in that bill being returned to the provider. 
JC 
Skin substitute used as a graft 
Definition: Append modifier JC to codes when the provider uses a skin substitute as a graft to replace debrided tissue 
in a wound. 
Explanation: Modifier JC indicates that the provider replaced debrided tissue in a wound with a skin substitute. The 
medical documentation should justify the use of a skin substitute as a graft to replace the debrided tissue in a wound. 
The provider implants or inserts the skin substitute into the wound to aid healing, and replace the devitalized or 
nonviable tissue. 
Tips: Providers most commonly append this modifier to HCPCS codes for skin substitutes when used to treat wounds, 
infections, or ulcers. The substitute typically replaces the dermal and epidermal layers of the skin. 
If the provider uses the skin substitute as a covering, and not as a graft, append modifier JD, Skin substitute not used 
as a graft. 
Submit HCPCS modifier JC or HCPCS modifier JD with HCPCS codes 04100, Skin substitute, not otherwise specified 
as well as 04101 through 04121 and 04136 to 04137, codes that specify brands or types of skin substitutes. 
JD 
Skin substitute not used as a graft 
Definition: Append modifier JD when the provider uses a skin substitute to cover wound due to inadequate skin 
available for coverage. 
Explanation: Modifier JD indicates that the provider used a skin substitute because of inadequate skin available 
to cover the wound. The medical documentation should justify the use of skin substitute to cover the wound. The 
provider uses the skin substitute as a dressing to cover the wound, to help protect it from contamination, and to replace 
defective tissue. 
The provider repairs or replaces the defective tissue with an artificial skin substitute, which aids in the healing process. 
Tips: When using the modifier JD, the skin substitute fits over the wound site. 
Providers most commonly append this modifier to HCPCS codes for skin substitutes when used to treat wounds, 
infections, or ulcers. The substitute typically replaces the dermal and epidermal layers of the skin. 
If the provider uses the skin substitute as a graft, and not as a covering, append modifier JC, Skin substitute used as a 
graft. 
Submit HCPCS modifier JC or HCPCS modifier JD with HCPCS codes 04100, Skin substitute, not otherwise specified 
as well as 04101 through 04121 and 04136 to 04137, codes that specify brands or types of skin substitutes. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
539 
JE-JW 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
JE 
Administered via dialysate 
Definition: Append modifier JE when the provider administers drugs and biologicals mixed in the dialysate solution, 
through any route of dialysate administration, to patients with end stage renal disease, or ESRD. 
Explanation: Modifier JE indicates that the provider administered drugs or biologicals to a patient with end stage renal 
disease, or ESRD, via the dialysate. The provider compounds the dialysate with injectable drugs and biologicals to 
administer to the patient. 
When the kidneys fail to function properly, patients undergo dialysis to remove waste products from the blood. The 
process of dialysis uses a fluid, called dialysate, which contains soluble substances and helps to remove toxic products 
from the blood. 
Tips: If the provider administers drugs or biologicals to a patient without ESRD, append modifier AY, Item or service 
furnished to an ESRD patient that is not for the treatment of ESRD. 
JG 
Drug or biological acquired with 340b drug pricing program discount, reported for informational purposes 
Definition: Entities append informational modifier JG to a code for a drug or biological (a drug derived from a living 
organism using biotechnology) purchased at a discount under the program. 
Explanation: Modifier JG indicates that a drug was purchased at a discount as determined under the 340B Drug 
Pricing Program. Entities use this modifier for informational purposes in line with 340B program reporting rules. 
Biological refers to a drug or agent derived from human, animal, or microorganism components using biotechnology; 
examples include cells, genes, tissues, recombinant proteins, vaccines, allergens, and blood and blood components. 
Modifier JG indicates that a drug was purchased at a discount as determined under the 340B Drug Pricing Program. 
Entities use this modifier for informational purposes in line with 340B program reporting rules. 
Biological refers to a drug or agent derived from human, animal, or microorganism components using biotechnology; 
examples include cells, genes, tissues, recombinant proteins, vaccines, allergens, and blood and blood components. 
Tips: Medicare pays an adjusted amount for certain separately payable drugs or biologicals acquired through the 340B 
program and furnished to a Medicare beneficiary by certain hospitals. 
Modifier TB is similar to JG, but TB is specific to "select entities." See the program rules that apply to the specific claim 
to determine the definition of "select entities." Program rules may vary over time. 
JK 
One month supply or less of drug or biological 
Definition: Append modifier JK to a code when you report a one-month supply or less of a drug or biological. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a code to indicate to the payer that you are reporting a one-month supply or less 
of a drug or biological. Check individual payer and contractor reporting rules regarding proper use of this modifier, as 
rules may vary. 
Tips: The original intent of this modifier was to identify the supply of insulin subject to a coinsurance cap. 
JL 
Three month supply of drug or biological 
Definition: Append modifier JL to a code when you report a three-month supply of a drug or biological. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a code to indicate to the payer that you are reporting a three-month supply of a 
drug or biological. Check individual payer and contractor reporting rules regarding proper use of this modifier, as rules 
may vary. 
Tips: The original intent of this modifier was to identify the supply of insulin subject to a coinsurance cap. 
JW 
Drug amount discarded/not administered to any patient 
Definition: Append modifier JW when billing for a drug or biological for which the provider discards the remainder of a 
single dose vial after administering a portion of the drug to the patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to the drugs and biologicals codes to show that the provider administers the 
necessary or prescribed amount of a drug supplied in a single dose vial and discards the remaining amount of the drug. 
The medical documentation must include the amount of the drug that the provider discards, along with the reason for 
the same. 
Tips: _Some drugs are billed by dose, so if the dose administered is less than the amount of a drug supplied in a single
use vial, append mod1f1er JW to bill the amount of the drug discarded. You must bill the amount of drug used and the
amount discarded separately. 
Other_ drugs are billed by units, as specified in the code's official descriptor. For these drugs, if the administered
dose 1s less _that the_amount specified in the OD, the provider bills for the unit specified in the OD. Do not append
the JW mod1f1er 1n this case because the provider is paid by the unit specified in the OD and not the amount actually
administered. 
540 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
JZ- K1 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
JZ 
Zero drug amount discarded/not administered to any patient 
Definition: Append modifier JZ to the code for a drug or biological in a single-use vial or single-use package when 
there is no discarded amount after administering the agent to the patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to the supply code for a drug or biological to show that there is no discarded amount 
to report after administration to the patient. This code applies when the agent is in a single-use vial or single-use 
package. 
Tips: See modifier JW when the provider discards the remainder of a single-use vial or single-use package after 
administering a portion to the patient. 
KO 
Lower extremity prosthesis functional level O - does not have the ability or potential to ambulate or transfer 
safely with or without assistance and a prosthesis does not enhance their quality of life or mobility 
Definition: Append modifier KO to cover the use of lower limb prosthetic device that does not contribute to the patient's 
ability to move safely with or without any support, nor does the prosthetic device enhance the patient's quality of life or 
mobility. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a claim for a lower limb prosthesis to indicate a functional state of zero for the 
patient for whom the provider supplies the prosthesis. The medical documentation must illustrate that the functional 
level of the patient, even with the lower limb prosthesis, is zero, i.e., the patient cannot move about independently, or 
even with assistance, and the prosthesis device does not improve the quality of life of the patient. 
CMS requires that documentation for a claim for lower limb prosthesis should accurately reflect the beneficiary's 
medical conditions that necessitate the use of the specific lower limb prosthesis as well as medical conditions that 
would impact the beneficiary's ability to effectively utilize the device in achieving a defined functional state. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers KO through K4 apply to the supply of lower limb prostheses and identify the functional level that 
a patient motivated to ambulate reaches or maintains within a reasonable time period. 
Modifier K1 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential to use prosthesis for transfers or ambulation on level 
surfaces at fixed cadence, typical of the limited and unlimited household ambulator. 
Modifier K2 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for ambulation with the ability to traverse low level 
environmental barriers such as curbs, stairs or uneven surfaces, typical of the limited community ambulator. 
Modifier K3 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for ambulation with variable cadence. Typical of the 
community ambulator who has the ability to traverse most environmental barriers and may have vocational, therapeutic, 
or exercise activity that demands prosthetic utilization beyond simple locomotion. 
Modifier K4 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for prosthetic ambulation that exceeds basic ambulation 
skills, exhibiting high impact, stress, or energy levels, typical of the prosthetic demands of the child, active adult, or 
athlete. 
K1 
Lower extremity prosthesis functional level 1 - has the ability or potential to use a prosthesis for transfers or 
ambulation on level surfaces at fixed cadence, typical of the limited and unlimited household ambulator 
Definition: Append modifier K1 to cover the use of lower limb prosthetic device that contributes to the patient's ability to 
move safely on level surface at a fixed pace, typical of a patient who goes about his normal activities within his home. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a claim for lower limb prosthesis to indicate a functional state of one for the 
patient for whom the provider supplies the prosthesis. The medical documentation must illustrate that the functional 
level of the patient with the lower limb prosthesis is one, i.e., the patient is able to move about independently on level 
surfaces at a fixed rhythm with the help of the prosthetic device. 
CMS requires that documentation for a claim for lower limb prosthesis should accurately reflect the beneficiary's 
medical conditions that necessitate the use of the specific lower limb prosthesis as well as medical conditions that 
would impact the beneficiary's ability to effectively utilize the device in achieving a defined functional state. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers KO through K4 apply to the supply of lower limb prosthesis and identify the functional level that 
a patient motivated to ambulate reaches or maintains within a reasonable time period. 
Modifier KO indicates that the patient has a functional level of zero, i.e., the patient cannot move about independently, or 
even with assistance, and the prosthetic device does not improve the quality of life of the patient. 
Modifier K2 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for ambulation with the ability to traverse low level 
environmental barriers such as curbs, stairs or uneven surfaces, typical of the limited community ambulator. 
Modifier K3 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for ambulation with variable cadence. Typical of the 
community ambulator who has the ability to traverse most environmental barriers and may have vocational, therapeutic, 
or exercise activity that demands prosthetic utilization beyond simple locomotion. 
Modifier K4 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for prosthetic ambulation that exceeds basic ambulation
skills, exhibiting high impact, stress, or energy levels, typical of the prosthetic demands of the child, active adult, or
athlete. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
541 
K2-K3 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
K2 
Lower extremity prosthesis functional level 2 - has the ability or potential for ambulation with the ability to 
traverse low level environmental barriers such as curbs, stairs or uneven surfaces, typical of the limited 
community ambulator 
Definition: Append modifier K2 to a code for a lower limb prosthetic device that contributes to the patient's ability to 
move safely over low level barriers, such as stairs or other uneven surfaces. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a claim for lower limb prosthesis to indicate a functional state of two for a patient 
for whom the provider supplies lower limb prosthesis. The medical documentation must illustrate that the functional 
level of the patient with the lower limb prosthesis is two, i.e., the patient can move about independently over low level 
surfaces, such as stairs, and even control his motion, with the help of the prosthetic device. 
CMS requires that support of a claim for lower limb prosthesis should accurately reflect the beneficiary's medical 
conditions that necessitate the use of the specifically ordered lower limb prosthesis as well as beneficiary's medical 
conditions that would impact the beneficiary's ability to effectively utilize the specifically ordered lower limb prosthesis in 
achieving a defined functional state. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers KO through K4 apply to the supply of lower limb prosthesis and identify the functional level that 
a patient motivated to ambulate reaches or maintains within a reasonable time period. 
Modifier KO indicates that the patient does not have the ability or potential to ambulate or transfer safely with or without 
assistance and prosthesis does not enhance their quality of life or mobility. 
Modifier K1 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential to use prosthesis for transfers or ambulation on level 
surfaces at fixed cadence, typical of the limited and unlimited household ambulator. 
Modifier K3 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for ambulation with variable cadence. Typical of the 
community ambulator who has the ability to traverse most environmental barriers and may have vocational, therapeutic, 
or exercise activity that demands prosthetic utilization beyond simple locomotion. 
Modifier K4 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for prosthetic ambulation that exceeds basic ambulation 
skills, exhibiting high impact, stress, or energy levels, typical of the prosthetic demands of the child, active adult, or 
athlete. 
K3 
Lower extremity prosthesis functional level 3 - has the ability or potential for ambulation with variable cadence, 
typical of the community ambulator who has the ability to transverse most environmental barriers and may 
have vocational, therapeutic, or exercise activity that demands prosthetic utilization beyond simple locomotion 
Definition: Append modifier K3 to the code for a lower limb prosthetic device that contributes to the patient's ability 
to move safely over most barriers with a variable pace and to perform certain activities that are beyond the use of the 
device. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a claim for lower limb prosthesis to identify a functional state of three for a patient 
for whom the provider supplies lower limb prosthesis. The medical documentation must illustrate that the functional 
level of the patient with the lower limb prosthesis is three, i.e., the patient can move about independently over most 
barriers with variable rhythm. The patient employs the prosthetic device to perform activities, such as exercise, 
vocational activities, and therapeutic activities, as well as ambulation. 
CMS requires that documentation for a claim for lower limb prosthesis should accurately reflect the beneficiary's 
medical conditions that necessitate the use of the specific lower limb prosthesis as well as medical conditions that 
would impact the beneficiary's ability to effectively utilize the device in achieving a defined functional state. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers KO through K4 apply to the supply of lower limb prosthesis and identify the functional level that 
a patient motivated to ambulate reaches or maintains within a reasonable time period. 
Modifier KO indicates that the patient does not have the ability or potential to ambulate or transfer safely with or without 
assistance and prosthesis does not enhance their quality of life or mobility. 
Modifier K1 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential to use prosthesis for transfers or ambulation on level 
surfaces at fixed cadence, typical of the limited and unlimited household ambulator. 
Modifier K2 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for ambulation with the ability to traverse low level 
environmental barriers such as curbs, stairs or uneven surfaces, typical of the limited community ambulator. 
Modifier K4 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for prosthetic ambulation that exceeds basic ambulation
skills, exhibiting high impact, stress, or energy levels, typical of the prosthetic demands of the child, active adult, or
athlete. 
542 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
K4-KB 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
K4 
Lower extremity prosthesis functional level 4 • has the ability or potential for prosthetic ambulation that 
exceeds the basic ambulation skills, exhibiting high impact, stress, or energy levels, typical of the prosthetic 
demands of the child, active adult, or athlete 
Definition: Append modifier K4 to the code for a lower limb prosthetic device that contributes to the patient's ability 
to move about safely and engage in high energy activities typical of the prosthetic demands of a child, active adult, or 
athlete. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a claim for lower limb prosthesis to identify a functional state of four for a patient 
for whom the provider supplies the lower limb prosthesis. The medical documentation must illustrate that the functional 
level of the lower limb prosthesis is four, i.e., the patient can move about independently and engage in high energy 
activities, such as those of a healthy child, active adult, or athlete. 
CMS requires that documentation for a claim for lower limb prosthesis should accurately reflect the beneficiary's 
medical conditions that necessitate the use of the specific lower limb prosthesis as well as medical conditions that 
would impact the beneficiary's ability to effectively utilize the device in achieving a defined functional state. 
Tips: HCPCS modifiers KO through K4 apply to the supply of lower limb prosthesis and identify the functional level that 
a patient motivated to ambulate reaches or maintains within a reasonable time period. 
Modifier KO indicates that the patient does not have the ability or potential to ambulate or transfer safely with or without 
assistance and prosthesis does not enhance their quality of life or mobility. 
Modifier K1 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential to use prosthesis for transfers or ambulation on level 
surfaces at fixed cadence, typical of the limited and unlimited household ambulator. 
Modifier K2 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for ambulation with the ability to traverse low level 
environmental barriers such as curbs, stairs or uneven surfaces, typical of the limited community ambulator. 
Modifier K3 indicates that the patient has the ability or potential for ambulation with variable cadence. Typical of the 
community ambulator who has the ability to traverse most environmental barriers and may have vocational, therapeutic, 
or exercise activity that demands prosthetic utilization beyond simple locomotion. 
KA 
Add on option/accessory for wheelchair 
Definition: Append this modifier to wheelchair codes for the supply of accessories and options. 
Explanation: Append modifier KA to show that the provider supplies accessories and options for a wheelchair to a 
patient. Numerous HCPCS codes exist for wheelchair options and accessories, for purchase or rental. 
Tips: Append this modifier to HCPCS codes E0955, Wheelchair accessory, headrest, cushioned, any type, including 
fixed mounting hardware, each; E0985 through E2378 for wheelchair accessories, with the exception of codes for 
power wheelchair interfaces for which you would append modifier KC. You may also append modifier KA to K0015, 
Detachable nonadjustable height armrest and KOO?O, Rear wheel assembly, complete, with pneumatic tire, spokes or 
molded, each. 
KB 
Beneficiary requested upgrade for ABN, more than 4 modifiers identified on claim 
Definition: Append modifier KB to a claim for durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies, or 
DMEPOS, when an advanced beneficiary notice, or ABN, applies when there are more than four modifiers on a claim 
line. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a claim for DMEPOS items that require an advance beneficiary notice or ABN, for 
line items that need more than four modifiers on the claim. 
An Advance Beneficiary Notice refers to a standardized notice that the provider or supplier issues to a Medicare 
beneficiary before providing certain outpatient or hospice, home health agencies, and religious nonmedical healthcare 
institutions items or services. An ABN must be issued when the provider believes Medicare may not pay for an item or 
service that Medicare usually covers and that Medicare may not consider medically reasonable and necessary for the 
patient in this particular instance. Additional guidelines apply to hospices, home health agencies, and durable medical 
equipment suppliers. 
The patient must have original Medicare rather than Medicare Advantage plans. The KB modifier only applies to claims 
for DMEPOS where the supplier obtained an ABN. If providers or suppliers do not issue a valid ABN to the beneficiary 
when Medicare requires it, they cannot bill the beneficiary for the service and may be financially liable if Medicare 
doesn't pay. 
Tips: When reporting the modifier KB, you should remember that an ABN applies when more than four modifiers are
present on the claim line. 
In cases when the supplier does not issue an ABN, and the provider reports more than four modifiers, append modifier 
99, Multiple modifiers. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
543 
KC-KE 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
KC 
Replacement of special power wheelchair interface 
Definition: Append modifier KC to a claim for the replacement of the interface for a power mobility device, i.e., the 
wheelchair, in a multiple competitive bidding product category. 
Explanation: Append this modifier when the interface is used with a competitively bid complex rehabilitative power 
mobility device base code. Interface refers to the way the patient causes a power wheelchair to move, such as a hand 
or chin control interface, sip and puff tube, or compact remote joystick. As a patient's physical condition deteriorates, he 
may require a change in the control interface. 
CMS added the KC modifier to cover the full cost of a special power wheelchair interface replacement when a change 
in the patient's medical condition makes the existing interface difficult or impossible for the patient to use or in cases 
where the existing interface is irreparably damaged or has exceeded its reasonable useful lifetime, when the interface 
is supplied through competitive bidding complex categories. 
Tips: When using the modifier KC, you should remember that the code identifies only competitive bidding complex 
categories. If the code covers both competitive and noncompetitive bidding categories, append modifier KE, Bid under 
round one of the OMEPOS competitive bidding program for use with noncompetitive bid base equipment. 
Append modifier KC to HCPCS codes for various types of power wheelchair interfaces when the accessory supplied 
with a competitively bid complex rehabilitative PMO base code. These include E2321 to E2330, Power wheelchair 
accessories, etc.; E2312, Power wheelchair accessory, hand or chin control interface, mini proportional remote joystick, 
proportional, including fixed mounting hardware; E2351, Power wheelchair accessory, electronic interface to operate 
speech generating device using power wheelchair control interface; E2373, Power wheelchair accessory, hand or chin 
control interface, compact remote joystick, proportional, including fixed mounting hardware; E2374, Power wheelchair 
accessory, hand or chin control interface, standard remote joystick, not including controller, proportional, including all 
related electronics and fixed mounting hardware, replacement only; and K0835 thru K0864, Power wheelchair, groups 
two and three. 
KD 
Drug or biological infused through DME 
Definition: Append modifier KO to a code for a drug or biological, which the provider infuses through a durable medical 
equipment, or OME, such as an implanted infusion pump. 
Explanation: Append this modifier for drugs and biologicals to show that the provider instills the drug through an 
implanted infusion pump categorized as a OME. Providers surgically implant infusion pumps in patients who need long 
term medication. The pump can deliver the drug in a measured dose at a continuous rate or intermittently. 
Medicare covers the intravenous, intraarterial, subcutaneous, intrathecal, or epidural administration of certain drugs via 
an infusion pump, such as those used for heart failure and pulmonary arterial hypertension, immunoglobulin for primary 
immune deficiency, insulin for diabetes, antifungals, antivirals, and narcotics to treat severe pain unrelieved by other 
methods, and chemotherapy, with modifier KO. Append this modifier to drug and biological codes administered via the 
above routes through an infusion pump. 
The medical documentation must illustrate that a medically necessary drug is administered via an implanted OME, i.e., 
an infusion pump. 
KE 
Bid under round one of the DMEPOS competitive bidding program for use with non-competitive bid base 
equipment 
Definition: Append modifier KE to codes for competitively bid wheelchair accessory claims when the accessory will be 
used with a noncompetitive bid wheelchair. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to codes for accessory items to be used with a noncompetitive bid base item. The 
modifier indicates an accessory code that can be billed with either competitive or noncompetitive base items when the 
accessory is to be used with a noncompetitive bid item. 
The competitive bidding program sets payment amounts for certain durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, 
and supplies, or OMEPOS to reduce beneficiary copays and save Medicare money while ensuring beneficiary access 
to quality items and services. 
Tips: The KE modifier is a pricing modifier that suppliers must use to identify when the same accessory HCPCS code 
can be furnished in multiple competitive and noncompetitive bidding product categories. 
For cori:,petitively bid accessori}s used with competitively bid base equipment supplied to beneficiaries living in
compet1t1ve bid areas, the supplier should submit modifier KG, OMEPOS item subject to OMEPOS competitive
bidding program number one, or KK, OMEPOS item subject to OMEPOS competitive bidding program number two, as 
appropriate. 
544 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
KF-KH 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
KF 
Item designated by FDA as class Ill device 
Definition: Append modifier KF to a code for a device that the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, has designated 
as a class Ill device. 
Explanation: Append this modifier for durable medical equipment designated as a class Ill device by the FDA. This 
pricing modifier identifies class Ill devices on the durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies, or 
DMEPOS, fee schedule. 
Append modifier KF with claims for investigational FDA designated class Ill devices, such as intraspinal catheter with 
infusion pump, electrodes of an external defibrillator, stair climbing power wheelchairs, and other devices. 
Class 111 devices are investigational devices still in clinical trials. The FDA designates as Class Ill those devices which 
cannot be classified into class I, i.e., those subject only to general controls, such as good manufacturing practice 
regulations, or class II, i.e., those which require additional performance review or postmarket surveillance to assure 
safety and effectiveness, because insufficient information exists to determine safety and effectiveness. These devices 
require FDA premarket approval to be released in the market. 
The FDA designates class Ill devices as category A for which initial questions of safety and effectiveness have not been 
resolved and the FDA is unsure whether the device type is safe and effective or category B which the FDA believes to 
be class I or II type devices for which underlying questions of safety and effectiveness have been resolved or safety 
and effectiveness have been demonstrated because other manufacturers have obtained FDA approval for that device 
type. Medicare does not pay for category A devices. 
The provider participating in the clinical trial must furnish all necessary information concerning the device, the clinical 
trial, and participating Medicare beneficiaries that the contractor deems necessary for a coverage determination and 
claims processing. Medicare contractors make the coverage determinations on all FDA approved category B devices by 
applying Medicare's longstanding criteria and procedures for making coverage decisions. Coverage decisions should 
be made for FDA approved investigational device exemptions, or IDEs, as they currently are made for FDA approved 
devices. 
KG 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number 1 
Definition: Append modifier KG to a code for a claim for durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and 
supplies, or DMEPOS, which the supplier provides in a multiple competitive bidding product category for a standard 
product category. 
Explanation: Append this modifier when the supplier delivers the same DMEPOS item in multiple competitive bidding 
product categories for a standard product category. 
The competitive bidding program sets payment amounts for certain durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, 
and supplies, or DMEPOS to reduce beneficiary copays and save Medicare money while ensuring beneficiary access 
to quality items and services. 
Tips: Failure to report this modifier may result in claim denial, Medicare overpayments, and other penalties that may 
lead to termination of the contract. 
The KG and KK modifiers are used in the round one rebid of the competitive bidding program as pricing modifiers and 
the KU and KW modifiers are reserved for future program use. The modifier KY indicates a claim for a beneficiary who 
resides in a competitive bidding area and purchases accessories and supplies for use with durable medical equipment. 
The competitive bidding program includes nine DMEPOS product categories; the number in the descriptor is the 
round number and indicates an expansion of the program to designated geographical boundaries. These modifiers are 
described as follows: 
KG: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number one. 
KK: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number two. 
KU: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number three. 
KW: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number four. 
KY: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number five. 
KH 
DMEPOS item, initial claim, purchase or first month rental 
Definition: Append modifier KH to the code for a claim for the first rental month or purchase option of durable medical 
equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies, or DMEPOS. The beneficiary may decide to purchase the item at any 
time during the rental period. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to DMEPOS claims for the first month of a capped rental period. 
Capped rental involves the payment of rent for 13 consecutive months to the supplier of the item, while the beneficiary 
uses the equipment. It covers all the costs including reasonable repairs, maintenance, replacement, or other costs. 
Tips: You should append the modifier KH with modifier RR, Rental; use the RR modifier when DME is to be rented. The 
KH modifier may also be used in conjunction with HCPCS modifier NU, New equipment, and UE, Used durable medical 
equipment. 
These modifiers do not need to be submitted on claims for oxygen and oxygen equipment. 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
545 
KI-KK 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
Kl 
DMEPOS item, second or third month rental 
Definition: Append modifier Kl to identify the second or third rental month or purchase option for durable medical 
equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies, or DMEPOS. The beneficiary may decide to purchase the item at any 
time of the rental period. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to DMEPOS claims for the second or third month of the capped rental period. 
Capped rental involves the payment of rent for 13 consecutive months to the supplier of the item, while the beneficiary 
uses the equipment. It covers all the costs including reasonable repairs, maintenance, replacement, or other costs. 
Tips: Use the modifier Kl for the second or third month's rent of the DMEPOS items. 
You should append the modifier Kl with modifier RR, Rental; use the RR modifier when DME is to be rented. 
These modifiers do not need to be submitted on claims for oxygen and oxygen equipment. 
For the first month rental period, use modifier KH, DMEPOS item, initial claim, purchase or first month rental. 
If the rental period continues past the third month, append modifier KJ, DMEPOS item, parenteral enteral nutrition, pen, 
pump or capped rental, months four to 15. 
KJ 
DMEPOS item, parenteral enteral nutrition (PEN) pump or capped rental, months four to fifteen 
Definition: Append modifier KJ to identify the fourth to 15th rental month purchase option for durable medical 
equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies, or DMEPOS; parenteral enteral nutrition pump rental, or capped rental. 
The beneficiary may purchase the item at any time of the rental period. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to DMEPOS, parenteral enteral nutrition pump, or capped rental claims for the fourth 
to 15th month of the capped rental period. 
Capped rental involves the payment of rent for 13 consecutive months to the supplier of the item, while the beneficiary 
uses the DMEPOS equipment and up to 15 months for parenteral enteral nutrition pump or other capped rental items. It 
covers all the costs including reasonable repairs, maintenance, replacement, or other costs. 
Tips: Use modifier KJ for each month of rental past the third month and up to the 13th month for DMEPOS items and up 
to the 15th month for a parenteral enteral nutrition pump 
You should append the modifier KJ with modifier RR, Rental; use the RR modifier when DME is to be rented. 
These modifiers do not need to be submitted on claims for oxygen and oxygen equipment. 
For the first month rental period, use modifier KH, DMEPOS item, initial claim, purchase or first month rental, and for 
the second and third rental months, append modifier Kl, DMEPOS item, second or third month rental. 
KK 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number 2 
Definition: Append modifier KK to code for durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies, or 
DMEPOS, which the supplier provides in a multiple competitive bidding product category for a complex product 
category. 
Explanation: Append this modifier when the supplier delivers the same DMEPOS item in multiple competitive bidding 
product categories for a complex product category. 
The competitive bidding program sets payment amounts for certain durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, 
and supplies, or DMEPOS to reduce beneficiary copays and save Medicare money while ensuring beneficiary access 
to quality items and services. 
Tips: Modifier KK is a pricing modifier for DMEPOS item claims that the supplier provides the beneficiary. 
Failure to report thit, modifier may result in claim denial, Medicare overpayments, and other penalties that may lead to 
termination of the contract. 
The KG and KK modifiers are used in the round one rebid of the competitive bidding program as pricing modifiers and 
the KU and KW modifiers are reserved for future program use. The modifier KY indicates a claim for a beneficiary who 
resides in a competitive bidding area and purchases accessories and supplies for use with durable medical equipment. 
The competitive bidding program includes nine DMEPOS product categories; the number in the descriptor is the 
round number and indicates an expansion of the program to designated geographical boundaries. These modifiers are 
described as follows: 
KG: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number one. 
KK: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number two. 
KU: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number three. 
KW: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number four. 
KY: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number five. 
546 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
KL-KO 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
KL 
DMEPOS item delivered via mail 
Definition: Append modifier KL to the claim for a mail order supply of durable medical equipments, prosthetics, 
orthotics, and supplies, or DMEPOS. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to indicate that the DMEPOS supplies were delivered to the beneficiary's residence 
through the mail and not from a local supplier storefront. Currently, this modifier applies to claims for only diabetic 
supply codes that a beneficiary receives through mail order. 
Tips: Failure to report this modifier may result in claim denial, Medicare overpayments, and other penalties that may 
lead to termination of the contract. 
KM 
Replacement of facial prosthesis including new impression/moulage 
Definition: Append modifier KM to the claim for the fabrication of any replacement of a prosthesis for any part of the 
face; this includes a new impression or mold, i.e., a moulage, of the face to be treated with the prosthesis. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to the claim for the replacement of a facial prosthesis; this includes the mold or 
impression if the provider needs one to fabricate the prosthesis, so do not bill the mold separately. 
Tips: If the provider uses a previously created mold to fabricate the replacement facial prosthesis, append modifier KN, 
Replacement of facial prosthesis using previous master model. 
Modifiers KM and KN must be appended to claims for replacement of facial prostheses provided by a nonphysician 
reported with codes L8040 through L8047. These codes include prosthetic procedures over various regions of the face 
like nasal prosthesis, midfacial prosthesis, orbital prosthesis, and others. 
KN 
Replacement of facial prosthesis using previous master model 
Definition: Append modifier KN to the claim for the fabrication of any replacement prosthesis for any part of the face 
that the provider fabricated using a previously created mold. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to the claim for a replacement facial prosthesis when the provider uses a previously 
created mold to fabricate the prosthesis. 
Tips: If the provider uses a new impression or mold of the face to replace a facial prosthesis, append modifier KM. 
Replacement of facial prosthesis including new impression or moulage. 
Modifiers KM and KN must be appended to claims for replacement of facial prostheses provided by a nonphysician 
reported with codes L8040 through L8047. These codes include prosthetic procedures over various regions of the face 
like nasal prosthesis, midfacial prosthesis, orbital prosthesis, and others. 
KO 
Single drug unit dose formulation 
Definition: Append modifier KO to the code for a single drug supplied in a unit dose container, which the provider 
administers to a patient. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a drug code to show that the provider administers a single drug that was supplied 
as a unit dose to the patient. 
Tips: Do not append this modifier to drug codes that are not supplied in a unit dose vial or container. 
Drugs supplied in unit dose form consist of inhalation drugs administered via a device classified as durable medical 
equipment, or DME. However, do not append modifier KO to J2545, Pentamidine isethionate, inhalation solution, FDA 
approved final product, noncompounded, administered through DME, unit dose form, per 300 mg or Q4074, lloprost, 
inhalation solution, FDA approved final product, noncompounded, administered through DME, unit dose form, up to 
20 mcg. 
Do not append the modifier to codes for the concentrated form of a drug. 
If the provider dispenses the first drug of the multiple drug in unit dose, append modifier KP, First drug of a multiple drug 
unit dose formulation. 
If the provider dispenses second or subsequent dose of a multiple drug in unit dose, append modifier KQ, Second or 
subsequent drug of a multiple drug unit dose formulation. 
If you do not append modifier KO, KP, or KQ to a code for a unit dose of a drug, Medicare will deny the claim. 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
547 
KP-KR 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
KP 
First drug of a multiple drug unit dose formulation 
Definition: Append modifier KP to the drug code for the first drug that the provider includes in a multiple drug 
formulation compounded from drugs supplied in a unit dose form or for the first dose of a single drug supplied in a unit 
dose form when the total dose is greater than the amount supplied in a single vial or container. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a code for the first drug that that the provider uses to compound a multiple drug 
unit dose formulation composed of more than one drug dispensed in a unit dose form. Also, append this modifier to the 
code for the first dose of a drug when the provider administers a single drug in a dose greater than the amount supplied 
in the unit dose form. 
Tips: Do not append this modifier to drug codes that are not supplied in a unit dose vial or container. 
Do not append the modifier to drug codes for a concentrated form of the drug. 
For the first dose, when the provider compounds a multiple drug formulation from two or more drugs dispensed in single 
drug unit form or when the provider administers a larger dose of a drug than that supplied in single unit dose form, 
append modifier KQ, Second or subsequent drug of a multiple drug unit dose formulation. 
If more than two drugs are compounded from drugs dispensed in unit dose form, no modifier is appended to the codes 
for the additional drugs. 
If the provider dispenses a unit dose of a single drug, append modifier KO, Single drug unit dose formulation. 
Use the modifier JW to identify unused drugs or biologicals from single use vials or single use packages that are 
appropriately discarded in order to receive payment for the amount of discarded drug or biological. 
If you do not append modifier KO, KP, or KQ to a code for a unit dose of a drug, Medicare will deny the claim. 
KQ 
Second or subsequent drug of a multiple drug unit dose formulation 
Definition: Append modifier KQ to the drug code for the second drug that the provider includes in a multiple drug 
formulation compounded from drugs supplied in a unit dose form or for the second dose of a single drug supplied in a 
unit dose form when the total dose is greater than the amount supplied in a single vial or container. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a code for the second drug that that the provider uses to compound a multiple 
drug unit dose formulation composed of more than one drug dispensed in a unit dose form. Also, append this modifier 
to the code for the second dose of a drug when the provider administers a single drug in a dose greater than the 
amount supplied in the unit dose form. 
Tips: Do not append this modifier to drug codes that are not supplied in a unit dose vial or container. 
Do not append the modifier to drug codes for a concentrated form of the drug. 
For the first dose, when the provider compounds a multiple drug formulation from two or more drugs dispensed in single 
drug unit form or when the provider administers a larger dose of a drug than that supplied in single unit dose form, 
append modifier KP, First drug of a multiple drug unit dose formulation. 
If more than two drugs are compounded from drugs dispensed in unit dose form, no modifier is appended to the codes 
for the additional drugs. 
If the provider dispenses a unit dose of a single drug, append modifier KO, Single drug unit dose formulation. 
Use the modifier JW to identify unused drugs or biologicals from single use vials or single use packages that are 
appropriately discarded in order to receive payment for the amount of discarded drug or biological. 
If you do not append modifier KO, KP, or KQ to a code for a unit dose of a drug, Medicare will deny the claim. 
KR 
Rental item, billing for partial month 
Definition: Append modifier KR to the code for a claim for a partial month rental for durable medical equipment, 
prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies, or DMEPOS. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to DMEPOS claims for a partial month of the capped rental period. The supplier 
submits the code for a month's rental of the DMEPOS and appends this modifier when the rental period was less than 
the month claimed. 
Capped rental involves the payment of rent for 13 consecutive months to the supplier of the item, while the beneficiary 
uses the equipment. It covers all the costs including reasonable repairs, maintenance, replacement, or other costs. 
Tips: You should append the modifier KR with modifier RR, Rental; use the RR modifier when DME is to be rented. 
For the first month rental period, use modifier KH, DMEPOS item, initial claim, purchase or first month rental. 
If the rental period continues to a second or third rental month, append modifier K l, DMEPOS item, second or third
month rental. 
If the rental period continues for a fourth to 15th month, append modifier KJ, DMEPOS item, parenteral enteral nutrition, 
pen, pump or capped rental, months four to 15. 
548 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
KS-KT 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
KS 
Glucose monitor supply for diabetic beneficiary not treated with insulin 
Definition: Append modifier KS when the provider supplies a glucose monitor to a patient who is not being treated with 
insulin injections. 
Explanation: The provider appends modifier KS when he dispenses all diabetic supplies to a patient per his order. The 
documentation must include the diagnosis of diabetes in order for the supplies to be covered. 
Append modifier KS on every claim for a glucose monitor and related supplies for patients not receiving insulin 
injections. 
Tips: The provider must have a record for the supplies that exceed the utilization guideline. 
New documentation should be presented at least every six months if the patient regularly uses the supplies. 
KT 
Beneficiary resides in a competitive bidding area and travels outside that competitive bidding area and 
receives a competitive bid item 
Definition: Append modifier KT when a beneficiary residing in a competitive bidding area, or CBA, receives a 
competitive bid item while traveling outside that competitive bidding area. 
Explanation: The supplier appends modifier KT for competitive bidding items, such as durable medical equipment, 
prosthetics, orthotics, and similar supplies, or DMEPOS, which he supplies to beneficiaries traveling outside the CBA in 
which they reside. 
Append the KT modifier to claims for nonmail order durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies 
when supplying these items to beneficiaries who require these items when traveling outside their resident CBA. 
If a CBA resident obtains a CBA item in a nonCBA area while traveling, the noncontract supplier must append modifier 
KT to the claim. 
Similarly, if a CBA resident obtains a CBA item from a contract supplier in a different CBA, the contract CBA supplier 
must append modifier KT to the claim. 
Tips: Important questions that need to be answered when a beneficiary needs a competitively bid item while traveling 
include the following: 
Is the beneficiary's permanent residence inside or outside a CBA? To verify a beneficiary's permanent CBA address, 
enter the beneficiary's permanent residence ZIP code into the CBA finder tool on the home page of the competitive 
bidding implementation contractor, or CBIC. 
Is the item being obtained inside or outside a CBA? 
If the beneficiary whose permanent address is inside a CBA travels to another CBA and the required item is a 
competitively bid item, the beneficiary must obtain the item from a CBA contractor who must append modifier KT to the 
claim. If the beneficiary needs a noncompetitive bid item, any Medicare enrolled supplier can provide the item. 
If the beneficiary whose permanent address is inside a CBA travels to nonCBA and needs a competitive bid item, the 
beneficiary may obtain the item from any Medicare enrolled supplier, and the supplier must affix the KT modifier to the 
claim. 
If the beneficiary's permanent residence is not in a CBA and the beneficiary travels to a CBA and requires a competitive 
bid item, the beneficiary must obtain the item from a contract supplier for the area where he or she is visiting. If the 
beneficiary needs a nonbid item, he or she may obtain the item from any Medicare enrolled supplier. In both cases, the 
supplier will be paid the fee schedule amount for the area where the patient permanently resides. 
If the beneficiary's permanent residence is not in a CBA and the beneficiary travels to an area that is not in a CBA and 
requires a competitive bid item, the beneficiary may obtain the item from any Medicare enrolled supplier. The supplier 
will be paid the fee schedule amount for the state where the beneficiary permanently resides. 
Claims submitted without the KT modifier by skilled nursing facilities, or SNFs, and other nursing facilities that are not 
located in a CBA and are not contract suppliers will be denied for residents who receive enteral nutrition items while in 
the facility if their permanent home address is in a CBA. 
Mail order CBA diabetic supplies claims with the KT modifier will be denied for traveling beneficiaries unless the 
supplies are shipped to the beneficiary's permanent CBA home address. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
549 
KU-KW 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
KU 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number 3 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate a durable medical equipment item depending upon the DMEPOS 
competitive bidding program number three, i.e., reserved for future program use. 
Explanation: Append modifier KU when the supplier supplies the same durable medical equipment, prosthetics, 
orthotics, and similar supplies, or DMEPOS, in multiple competitive bidding product categories or when the same code 
can be used to describe both competitively and noncompetitively bid items. The KU modifier is reserved for future use. 
Tips: The KG, KK, KU and KW modifiers are pricing modifiers that identify when the same supply or accessory HCPCS 
code is furnished in multiple competitive bidding product categories or when the same code can be used to describe 
both competitively and non competitively bid items. The KG and KK modifiers are used in the Round I Rebid of the 
competitive bidding program as pricing modifiers and the KU and KW modifiers are reserved for future program use. 
The competitive bid modifiers KG, KK, KU, and KW are only used on claims for beneficiaries that live in a Competitive 
Bidding Area, or CBA. 
Competitive Bidding Program pricing modifiers KE, KG, KK, KU, KW, or KY, NU, RR or UE modifier should be placed in 
the first position following the HCPCS code and the KE modifier should be placed in the second position. 
KV 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program that is furnished as part of a professional 
service 
Definition: Append modifier KV, when professional providers, who are not contract suppliers, supply walkers and 
related accessories to beneficiaries in a competitive bidding area or CBA. 
Explanation: The noncontract professional provider appends modifier KV when he or she supplies walkers and other 
accessories to beneficiaries in a competitive bidding area or CBA. Contract suppliers should not append modifier KV. 
Tips: Walkers that are appropriately supplied in accordance with this exception will be paid at the single payment 
amount. 
The provider, as a noncontract supplier, should append modifier KV in combination with the following HCPCS codes: 
A4636, Replacement, handgrip, cane, crutch, or walker, each; A4637, Replacement, tip, cane, crutch, walker, each; and 
E0130 to E0159 for walkers and replacement parts. 
On the claim billed to the Durable Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative Contractor or DME MAC, the walker line 
item must have the same date of service as the professional service office visit billed to the Part A or Part B MAC. The 
provider and treating practitioners should submit the office visit claim and the walker claim on the same day to ensure 
timely and accurate claims processing. 
KW 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number 4 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate a durable medical equipment item depending upon the DMEPOS 
competitive bidding program number four, i.e., reserved for future program use. 
Explanation: Append modifier KW when the supplier supplies the same DMEPOS item in multiple competitive bidding 
product categories. This modifier is reserved for future use. 
Tips: The KG, KK, KU and KW modifiers are pricing modifiers that identify when the same supply or accessory HCPCS 
code is furnished in multiple competitive bidding product categories or when the same code can be used to describe 
both competitively and noncompetitively bid items. The KG and KK modifiers are used in the Round I Rebid of the 
competitive bidding program as pricing modifiers and the KU and KW modifiers are reserved for future program use. 
The competitive bid modifiers, KG, KK, KU, and KW, are only used on claims for beneficiaries that live in a Competitive 
Bidding Area, or CBA. 
Competitive Bidding Program pricing modifiers KE, KG, KK, KU, KW, or KY, the NU, RR or UE modifier should be 
placed in the first position following the HCPCS code and the KE modifier should be placed in the second position. 
550 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medico/ Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
KX 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
KX 
Requirements specified in the medical policy have been met 
Definition: The provider should append modifier KX when exceptions are in effect and the beneficiary qualifies for an 
exception. 
Explanation: Modifier KX is a multipurpose modifier for part B professional services claims to over-ride therapy caps 
for physical therapy, occupational therapy or speech language pathology services, for certain DMEPOS services, 
and to bypass gender-specific (services identified as male or female) edits for patients with ambiguous genitalia and 
transgender patients. Appending modifier KX affirms that the documentation supports the requirements stated in the 
medical policy have been met and that the service was medically necessary. 
For example, you may append modifier KX on claims for physical therapy, occupational therapy or speech language 
pathology services when therapy exceeds the caps listed in the medical policy. When you append modifier KX, it means 
that the provider attests that the requirements in the medical policy that relate to therapy cap exceptions have been 
met. In addition, it means the medical record documents that the additional therapy was medically necessary. The 
beneficiary may qualify for use of the cap exceptions at any time during the episode when documented medically 
necessary services exceed caps. All covered and medically necessary services qualify for exceptions to caps. All 
requests for exception require that the KX modifier be added to the claim. 
DME example: Append KX to codes for the supply of glucose monitors and testing supplies when the patient is 
receiving insulin injections. 
By appending the KX modifier, the provider attests that the services billed are reasonable and necessary services, that 
they meet the policy requirements, that the medical record justifies the services, and that they qualify for an exception 
using the automatic process exception. 
Tips: The following CPT® codes for evaluation procedures may qualify for requests for an exception with the addition of 
modifier KX: 97161-97172. 
If physical therapy, occupational therapy, or speech language pathology services would be payable before the cap 
is reached and can be justified as still medically necessary after the cap is reached, that service should be covered. 
Contact your contractor for interpretation if you are not sure that a service qualifies for an exception. 
It is very important to recognize that most conditions would not ordinarily result in services exceeding the cap. Use the 
KX modifier only when theraµy that exceeds the cap can be justified and documented. Routine use of the KX modifier 
for all patients with these conditions will likely show up on data analysis as aberrant and invite inquiry. Ensure that the 
medical record includes sufficient detail to support the use of the modifier. Documentation does not have to provided 
unless requested, however. 
In addition to its other existing uses, modifier KX should also be used to identify services that are gender-specific, i.e., 
services that are considered female or male only, which includes transgender patients or patients with ambiguous 
genitalia; that the physician or practitioner is performing a service on a patient for whom gender-specific editing may 
apply; and that the service should be allowed to continue with normal processing. Payment will be made if the coverage 
and reporting criteria have been met for the service. 
Justification for exceptions to therapy caps includes medical diagnoses and complications that might directly and 
significantly influence the amount of treatment required. Other variables, such as the availability of a caregiver at home, 
that affect appropriate treatment may also justify an exception. Published research, clinical guidelines from professional 
sources, and or clinical or common sense should support the request for an exception to therapy caps. 
The patient's lack of access to outpatient hospital therapy services alone, when outpatient hospital therapy services are 
excluded from the limitation, does not constitute justification for exceptions to therapy caps. Residents of skilled nursing 
facilities prevented by consolidated billing from accessing hospital services, debilitated patients for whom transportation 
to the hospital is a physical hardship, or lack of therapy services at hospitals in the beneficiary's county may or may 
not qualify as justification for continued services above the caps. The patient's condition and complexities might justify 
extended services, but their location does not. 
Note: Append KX to bypass gender-specific code requirements on Part B claims. For Part A claims, append condition 
code 45 (Ambiguous Gender Category) on any outpatient claim related to transgender or hermaphrodite issues. 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medico/ Association. All rights reserved. 
551 
KY-LC 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
KY 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number 5 
Definition: Append modifier KY to codes for a claim for competitive bid, or CB, wheelchair accessories in the durable 
medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies, or DMEPOS, competitive bidding program number five. 
Explanation: Append this modifier when the supplier delivers the same DMEPOS item in multiple competitive bidding 
product categories for complex product category. The KY modifier should only be appended to competitive bid, or CB, 
wheelchair accessories. 
The competitive bidding program sets payment amounts for certain durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, 
and supplies, or DMEPOS to reduce beneficiary copays and save Medicare money while ensuring beneficiary access 
to quality items and services. 
Tips: Failure to report this modifier may result in claim denial, Medicare overpayments, and other penalties that may 
lead to termination of the contract. 
The KG and KK modifiers are used in the round one rebid of the competitive bidding program as pricing modifiers and 
the KU and KW modifiers are reserved for future program use. The modifier KY indicates a claim for a beneficiary who 
resides in a competitive bidding area and purchases accessories and supplies for use with durable medical equipment. 
The competitive bidding program includes nine DMEPOS product categories; the number in the descriptor is the 
round number and indicates an expansion of the program to designated geographical boundaries. These modifiers are 
described as follows: 
KG: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number one. 
KK: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number two. 
KU: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number three. 
KW: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number four. 
KY: DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS competitive bidding program number five. 
KZ 
New coverage not implemented by managed care 
Definition: Append modifier KZ when the provider implants a defibrillator in a patient for a new indication not previously 
included in managed care or Medicare Advantage plan guidelines for implantation of a defibrillator. 
Explanation: Append modifier KZ to the claim when the provider implants a cardioverter defibrillator, or ICD, based on 
an indication or condition not previously included in managed care guidelines. 
Append modifier KZ to codes for ICDs placed on Medicare Managed Care claims for the new coverage guidelines. 
However, make sure you report implants performed under the older guidelines without this modifier. 
Medicare does not require an advanced beneficiary notice or ABN to reimburse the services given by the provider. 
Tips: CPT® codes to which HCPCS modifier KZ may be appended include 33240 through 33241; 33243 and 33244; 
33249 and 33979. 
LC 
Left circumflex coronary artery 
Definition: Append modifier LC to a code for procedures on the left circumflex coronary artery. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to codes when the provider performs a procedure on the left circumflex coronary 
artery. The left circumflex coronary artery supplies blood to the left atrium and left ventricle of the heart, i.e., the upper 
and the lower chambers of the heart respectively. 
Tips: The various types of procedures on the left circumflex coronary artery include angioplasty, atherectomy, stent 
placement, or grafting. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the right coronary artery, append modifier RC, right coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the left anterior descending artery, use modifier LO, Left anterior descending 
coronary artery. 
If the provider targets the left main coronary artery, use modifier LM, Left main coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on ramus intermedius coronary artery, use modifier RI, Ramus intermedius 
coronary artery. 
552 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
LO-LS 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
LO 
Left anterior descending coronary artery 
Definition: Append modifier LO to a code for procedures on the left anterior descending coronary artery. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to codes when the provider performs a procedure on the left anterior descending 
coronary artery, also known as the anterior interventricular artery. The left anterior descending coronary artery supplies 
blood to the left ventricle, the left lower chamber of the heart that pumps blood out of the heart to the rest of the body. 
Tips: The various types of procedures on the left anterior descending coronary artery include angioplasty, atherectomy, 
stent placement, or grafting. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the right coronary artery, append modifier RC, right coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the left circumflex coronary artery, append modifier LC, left circumflex coronary 
artery. 
If the provider targets the left main coronary artery, use modifier LM, Left main coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on ramus intermedius coronary artery, use modifier RI, Ramus intermedius 
coronary artery. 
LL 
Lease/rental (use the 'II' modifier when DME equipment rental is to be applied against the purchase price) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier LL to durable medical equipment, or DME, rental items that he applies the 
rental payments against the purchase price. DME is medical equipment that helps a patient to manage his activities of 
daily living, or AOL, in an easier way or that provides therapeutic benefits to a patient. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier LL to codes for DME rental that he applies the rental payments against 
the purchase price for the item. DME helps the patient to manage his activities of daily living in an easier way. A few 
examples of DME's are crutches, wheelchairs, commodes, canes, walkers, hospital beds, patient safety equipment, 
and fracture and traction apparatus. 
Tips: A provider uses modifier RR, Rented item, if the DME item is being rented by the patient, modifier NU, New 
purchased item, if the DME item is purchased new by the patient, and modifier NR, New when rented, when the DME, 
which was new at the time of rental is subsequently purchased. 
LM 
Left main coronary artery 
Definition: Append modifier LM to a code for procedures on the left main coronary artery. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to codes when the provider performs a procedure on the left main coronary artery. 
The left main coronary artery supplies blood to a large portion of the heart and the arteries branching off the heart. 
Tips: The various types of procedures on the left main coronary artery include angioplasty, atherectomy, stent 
placement, or grafting. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the right coronary artery, append modifier RC, right coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the left circumflex coronary artery, append modifier LC, left circumflex coronary 
artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the left anterior descending artery, use modifier LD, Left anterior descending 
coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on ramus intermedius coronary artery, use modifier RI, Ramus intermedius 
coronary artery. 
LR 
Laboratory round trip 
Definition: Append modifier LR to a code for travel costs involved with obtaining a diagnostic laboratory service from 
either a nursing home patient or homebound patient. 
Explanation: Modifier LR identifies a code for a diagnostic or a laboratory procedure that requires round trip travel to 
acquire the specimen. The provider identifies the round trip travel by use of the LR modifier. 
Independent clinical laboratories may append this modifier to a HCPCS code such as P9604, Travel allowance one 
way in connection with a medically necessary laboratory specimen collection drawn from home bound or nursing home 
bound patient; prorated trip charge. 
Tips: Not using modifier LR should have no effect on payment. 
LS 
FDA-monitored intraocular lens implant 
Definition: Append modifier LS to a code for a patient undergoing surgery and fitted with an intraocular lens implant, or 
IOL. 
Explanation: Modifier LS illustrates a code for a patient undergoing surgery and fitting with an intraocular lens implant, 
or IOL. The provider surgically places an intraocular lens in the eye of a patient with eye disorders such as cataracts or 
myopia. A cataract is an eye condition in which the lens of the eye becomes opaque gradually, leading to blurred vision. 
Myopia causes the patient to lose focus of distant objects, and he is only able to see nearby objects clearly. Modifier LS 
provides additional information to the payer when billing eye procedures that the provider places an IOL that is being 
monitored by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. 
Tips: Append this modifier on provider claims for eye surgery in patients with IOL implants. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
553 
LT-MA 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
LT 
Left side (used to identify procedures performed on the left side of the body) 
Definition: Append modifier LT to specify the procedure that the provider performs is on the left side of the body. 
Explanation: Modifier LT illustrates that a provider performs a procedure on the left side of a patient's body. LT 
represents the left anatomical side of the body, when the body contains the same anatomical part on both the right and 
left side of the body. The provider applies LT in the case of procedures he performs on the left side of a paired organ 
such as the kidneys, lungs, legs, or ears. 
A provider does not append this modifier when a procedure code specifies bilateral, or modifier 50, Bilateral Procedure, 
as they are not compatible or if the code specifies a particular side of the body. 
Tips: Modifier LT does not affect the allowed amount on a claim; however, lack of the modifier can lead to denials. 
Some private payers do not recognize the LT and RT, Right side modifiers. For these procedures, a provider may use a 
single code with modifier 50, Bilateral Procedure, to denote a bilateral procedure. 
When using more than one modifier, place a pricing modifier, or a modifier that affects reimbursement, in the first 
modifier position. Then place the informational modifier in the second modifier position. For example if a provider uses 
a procedure code with modifier 22, Increased Procedural Services and modifier LT, then place modifier 22 first and 
modifier LT second. 
LU 
Fractionated payment 
Definition: Append modifier LU to a code to alert the payer that you are reporting fractional units for a single procedure 
or service to allow accurate payment. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to a code to indicate to the payer that you are reporting a single procedure or 
service using fractionated units, as defined by the payer. For instance, the code descriptor may state "per therapeutic 
dose, " but a contractor may have a rule to divide the allowed total payment by 10, requiring the provider to bill in 0.1 
unit fractions. The provider would then bill a total of 10 fractional units to reach the total allowed payment amount of 1 
unit. Note that this is only an example of a possible rule. Instructions may vary based on the individual payer. 
This modifier may be appropriate when a claim system's field length is not long enough for the price for a service. 
Providers can use modifier LU to bill fractional units of a single service so the claim reflects the total dollar amount. 
Tips: Check individual payer and contractor reporting rules regarding proper use of this modifier, as rules may vary. 
M2 
Medicare secondary payer (MSP) 
Definition: Append modifier M2 to specify that Medicare is the secondary payer for a drug procured outside of the 
Competitive Acquisition Program, or CAP, for drugs and biological. 
Explanation: The M2 modifier is only for the submission of claims by providers, enrolled in the Competitive Acquisition 
Program, or CAP, for drugs and biological, an alternative reimbursement methodology to the Average Sales Price, or 
ASP payment method. 
The provider appends this modifier when he incorrectly identifies the patient's main insurer and procures a CAP drug 
for a Medicare patient from a source other than the CAP vendor. The CAP provider later determines that Medicare is 
primary and that the drug should have been ordered through the approved CAP vendor. 
The provider appends the M2 modifier to the drug, which allows the local carrier's claims processing system to make 
a payment under ASP. The participating CAP provider maintains documentation in the beneficiary's medical record to 
provide further information if necessary as to why they made the initial determination that Medicare is secondary to 
another payer. The local carrier may request this documentation for review purposes. 
Tips: Modifier M2 is no longer effective for services after December 31, 2008. 
MA 
Ordering professional is not required to consult a clinical decision support mechanism due to service being 
rendered to a patient with a suspected or confirmed emergency medical condition 
Definition: Append modifier MA to a code for services when the provider did not consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism because the patient had a suspected or confirmed emergency medical condition. 
Explanation: Modifier MA indicates that a provider did not access or receive support from a qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism for a service he provided due to the patient having or suspected to have an emergency medical
condition. 
Qualified clinical decision support mechanisms (CDSM) factor into appropriate use criteria (AUC) and quality measures 
required by certain Medicare/CMS participation programs. Ordinarily, registered qualified clinical decision support 
mechanism providers must meet certain requirements, but this is an exception to the rule. 
Tips: For other instances when the ordering professional is not required to consult a clinical decision support
mechanism, see modifiers MB through MD. 
554 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
MB-ME 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
MB 
Ordering professional is not required to consult a clinical decision support mechanism due to the significant 
hardship exception of insufficient internet access 
Definition: Append modifier MB to a code for services when the provider did not consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism because he had insufficient Internet access. 
Explanation: Modifier MB indicates that a provider did not access or receive support from a qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism for a service he provided due to not having sufficient access to the Internet. 
Qualified clinical decision support mechanisms (CDSM) factor into appropriate use criteria (AUC) and quality measures 
required by certain Medicare/CMS participation programs. Ordinarily, registered qualified clinical decision support 
mechanism providers must meet certain requirements, but this is an exception to the rule. 
Tips: For other instances when the ordering professional is not required to consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism, see modifiers MA through MD. 
MC 
Ordering professional is not required to consult a clinical decision support mechanism due to the significant 
hardship exception of electronic health record or clinical decision support mechanism vendor issues 
Definition: Append modifier MC to a code for services when the provider did not consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism (CDSM) because of EHR or CDSM issues. 
Explanation: Modifier MC indicates that a provider did not access or receive support from a qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism for a service he provided due to issues with the electronic health record (EHR) or clinical decision 
support mechanism (CDSM) vendor issues. 
Qualified clinical decision support mechanisms (CDSM) factor into appropriate use criteria (AUC) and quality measures 
required by certain Medicare/CMS participation programs. Ordinarily, registered qualified clinical decision support 
mechanism providers must meet certain requirements, but this is an exception to the rule. 
Tips: For other instances when the ordering professional is not required to consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism, see modifiers MA through MD. 
MD 
Ordering professional is not required to consult a clinical decision support mechanism due to the significant 
hardship exception of extreme and uncontrollable circumstances 
Definition: Append modifier MD to a code for services when the provider did not consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism because of uncontrollable circumstances or because doing so would represent a significant hardship. 
Explanation: Modifier MD indicates that a provider did not access or receive support from a qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism (CDSM) for a service he provided due to circumstances beyond his control or because accessing 
or receiving support from a CDSM would represent a significant hardship. 
Qualified clinical decision support mechanisms (CDSM) factor into appropriate use criteria (AUC) and quality measures 
required by certain Medicare/CMS participation programs. Ordinarily, registered qualified clinical decision support 
mechanism providers must meet certain requirements, but this is an exception to the rule. 
Tips: For other instances when the ordering professional is not required to consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism, see modifiers MA through MC. 
ME 
The order for this service adheres to appropriate use criteria in the clinical decision support mechanism 
consulted by the ordering professional 
Definition: Append modifier ME to a code for services that meet appropriate use criteria according to the clinical 
decision support mechanism consulted. 
Explanation: Modifier ME indicates that the ordering professional consulted a qualified clinical decision support 
mechanism (CDSM) prior to ordering advanced diagnostic imaging services and that said services meet the appropriate 
use criteria (AUC). 
Qualified clinical decision support mechanisms (CDSMs) factor into appropriate use criteria (AUC) and quality 
measures required by certain Medicare/CMS participation programs. Ordinarily, registered qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism providers must meet certain requirements. 
Tips: When the advanced diagnostic imaging service requested by an ordering professional does not meet AUC, 
append modifier MF. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
555 
MF-N1 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
MF 
The order for this service does not adhere to the appropriate use criteria in the clinical decision support 
mechanism consulted by the ordering professional 
Definition: Append modifier MF to a code for services that DO NOT meet appropriate use criteria according to the 
clinical decision support mechanism consulted. 
Explanation: Modifier MF indicates that the ordering professional consulted a qualified clinical decision support 
mechanism (CDSM) prior to ordering advanced diagnostic imaging services but said services DO NOT meet the 
appropriate use criteria (AUG). 
Qualified clinical decision support mechanisms (CDSMs) factor into appropriate use criteria (AUG) and quality 
measures required by certain Medicare/CMS participation programs. Ordinarily, registered qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism providers must meet certain requirements. 
Tips: When an ordering professional consults a CDSM and the advanced diagnostic imaging services DO meet AUC, 
append modifier ME. 
MG 
The order for this service does not have applicable appropriate use criteria in the qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism consulted by the ordering professional 
Definition: Append modifier MG to a code for services when the ordering professional consults the clinical decision 
support mechanism (CDSM), but the CDSM does not have applicable appropriate use criteria. 
Explanation: Modifier MG indicates that the ordering professional consulted a qualified clinical decision support 
mechanism (CDSM) prior to ordering advanced diagnostic imaging services but the CDSM did have appropriate use 
criteria (AUG) that applied to the situation. 
Qualified clinical decision support mechanisms (CDSMs) factor into appropriate use criteria (AUG) and quality 
measures required by certain Medicare/CMS participation programs. Ordinarily, registered qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism providers must meet certain requirements. 
MH 
Unknown if ordering professional consulted a clinical decision support mechanism for this service, related 
information was not provided to the furnishing professional or provider 
Definition: Append modifier MH to a code for services when it is not known whether the ordering professional 
consulted the clinical decision support mechanism (CDSM) or whether related information was not provided to the 
professional or provider who furnishes the services. 
Explanation: Modifier MH applies to advanced diagnostic imaging services for which it is unknown if the ordering 
professional consulted a qualified clinical decision support mechanism (CDSM) prior to ordering the services or if the 
furnishing provider was not provided the related information. 
Qualified clinical decision support mechanisms (CDSMs) factor into appropriate use criteria (AUG) and quality 
measures required by certain Medicare/CMS participation programs. Ordinarily, registered qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism providers must meet certain requirements. 
MS 
Six month maintenance and servicing fee for reasonable and necessary parts and labor which are not covered 
under any manufacturer or supplier warranty 
Definition: Append modifier MS to a code to identify the service is for a six month periodic, in home visit by the provider 
for inspection and servicing of equipment. The service the provider performs includes the general maintenance and 
servicing to the item as well as costs not covered by a manufacturer or supplier warranty for reasonable and necessary 
parts to service the equipment. 
Explanation: Modifier MS illustrates a code for the routine maintenance and performance checks a provider performs 
every six months on DME, or durable medical equipment such as oxygen equipment. This maintenance and servicing 
typically includes the labor time spent and any reasonable and necessary parts he uses to keep the equipment in good 
working order, and which are not covered under any manufacturer or supplier warranty. 
The provider appends this modifier to Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS, codes such as 
oxygen concentrator codes E1390 to E1392, and K0738, Portable gaseous oxygen system, rental; home compressor 
used to fill portable oxygen cylinders; includes portable containers, regulator, flowmeter, humidifier, cannula or mask, 
and tubing. 
Tips: Medicare no longer pays for maintenance and servicing of capped rental items every six months with the
exce_Ption of oxygen equipment. For other capped rental items, Medicare typically covers reasonable and necessary 
repairs and servicing once the beneficiary owns the capped rental item. 
N1 
Group 1 oxygen coverage criteria met 
Definition: Append modifier N1 to indicate the service meets group 1 oxygen coverage criteria for the payer. 
Explanation: Append modifier N1 to indicate the service meets group 1 oxygen therapy coverage criteria as defined by 
the payer for the relevant date of service. Factors may include the patient's PO2 (partial pressure of oxygen, which is 
the amount of oxygen gas dissolved in the blood) and specific diagnoses. 
556 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
N2- Pl 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
N2 
Group 2 oxygen coverage criteria met 
Definition: Append modifier N2 to indicate the service meets group 2 oxygen coverage criteria for the payer. 
Explanation: Append modifier N2 to indicate the service meets group 2 oxygen therapy coverage criteria as defined by 
the payer for the relevant date of service. Factors may include the patient's PO2 (partial pressure of oxygen, which is 
the amount of oxygen gas dissolved in the blood) and specific diagnoses. 
N3 
Group 3 oxygen coverage criteria met 
Definition: Append modifier N3 to indicate the service meets group 3oxygen coverage criteria for the payer. 
Explanation: Append modifier N3 to indicate the service meets group 3 oxygen therapy coverage criteria as defined by 
the payer for the relevant date of service. Factors may include the patient's PO2 (partial pressure of oxygen, which is 
the amount of oxygen gas dissolved in the blood) and specific diagnoses. 
NB 
Nebulizer system, any type, FDA-cleared for use with specific drug 
Definition: Append modifier NB to a code for any type of nebulizer system that is cleared by the Food and Drug 
Administration, or FDA, for use with specific drugs. 
Explanation: Modifier NB illustrates the use of a nebulizer system of any type. The nebulizer system that the provider 
appends the modifier to is a system cleared by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for use with specific drugs. 
This modifier may be applicable to Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS, codes E0550 through 
E0585, which identify different types of nebulizer systems. 
Tips: Append this modifier for Medicare services that the facility submits to a durable medical equipment, or DME 
Medicare Administrative Contractor, a DME MAC. 
NR 
New when rented (use the 'NR' modifier when DME which was new at the time of rental is subsequently 
purchased) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier NR to identify durable medical equipment, or DME, that was new at the time of 
rental, and a patient subsequently purchases it. DME is medical equipment that helps a patient to manage his activities 
of daily living in an easier way or that provides therapeutic benefits to a patient. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier NR to a code to indicate that a DME item that the patient purchases was 
new DME when the patient first received the item at the time of rental. DME helps the patient to manage his activities of 
daily living in an easier way. A few examples of DME's are crutches, wheelchairs, commodes, canes, walkers, hospital 
beds, patient safety equipment, and fracture and traction apparatus. 
Tips: A provider uses the modifier RR, Rented item, if the item is being rented by the patient and modifier NU, New 
purchased item, if the item is purchased new by the patient. 
NU 
New equipment 
Definition: Append modifier NU to a code for new durable medical equipment item. 
Explanation: Modifier NU identifies that the beneficiary has received new or fresh durable medical equipment, or 
DME, that is equipment which has never been used before. 
The DME codes the provider may most often append this modifier to, are items that are inexpensive or routinely 
purchased items, capped rental items, items requiring frequent and substantial servicing, or oxygen equipment. The 
codes that may apply include HCPCS E codes and K codes items including complex rehabilitative power wheelchairs, 
K0835 through K0891. 
Tips: Append this modifier to identify new durable medical equipment, or DME, items. 
P1 
A normal healthy patient 
Definition: The provider administers anesthesia to a normal healthy individual. 
Explanation: The anesthesia provider appends this modifier to an anesthesia code to show that the provider 
administers anesthesia to a normal healthy individual during any procedure. 
A normal healthy individual includes patients with no physiologic or psychiatric disorder and patients with a good level 
of exercise tolerance. It does not include very young and very old individuals. 
The medical record should justify the diagnosis that corresponds to the individual being normal and healthy. 
Tips: The anesthesia modifiers P1 to P6 identify the health condition of the patient in whom the provider is going to 
administer the anesthesia. The identification of the health condition helps the payer to determine the complexity of 
the anesthesia case. Many payers will reimburse more for anesthesia identified with modifiers P2 to P5 because the 
patient's case is likely more complex. Payers will not reimburse more for modifier P1 because the patient is normal and 
healthy or for P6 because the patient is brain dead. 
The provider uses this modifier only with anesthesia codes that range from 00100 to 01999. Coders will not append this 
modifier; only the anesthesia provider will append it. 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
557 
P2 - P4 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
P2 
A patient with mild systemic disease 
Definition: The provider administers anesthesia to an individual with mild systemic disease. Patients with mild systemic 
disease have a well controlled disease of one body system. 
Explanation: The anesthesia provider appends this modifier to an anesthesia code to show that the provider 
administers anesthesia to an individual with mild systemic disease during any procedure. 
Patients with mild systemic disease have a well controlled disease of one body system, for example, controlled 
hypertension, controlled diabetes mellitus, mild obesity, or a smoking history with no symptoms of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease. Mild systemic disease does not affect the activities of daily living. 
The medical record should justify the diagnosis that corresponds to mild systemic disease. 
Tips: The anesthesia modifiers P1 to P6 identify the health condition of the patient in whom the provider is going to 
administer the anesthesia. The identification of the health condition helps the payer to determine the complexity of 
the anesthesia case. Many payers will reimburse more for anesthesia identified with modifiers P2 to P5 because the 
patient's case is likely more complex. Payers will not reimburse more for modifier P1 because the patient is normal and 
healthy or for P6 because the patient is brain dead. 
The provider uses this modifier only with anesthesia codes that range from 00100 to 01999. Coders will not append this 
modifier; only the anesthesia provider will append it. 
P3 
A patient with severe systemic disease 
Definition: The provider administers anesthesia to an individual with severe systemic disease. Patients with severe 
systemic disease have some limitation in activities and well controlled disease of more than one body system or one 
major body system. 
Explanation: The anesthesia provider appends this modifier to an anesthesia code to show that the provider 
administers anesthesia to an individual with severe systemic disease. 
Patients with severe systemic disease have some limitation in activities and well controlled disease of more than one 
body system or one major body system. For example, the category includes patients with stable angina, controlled 
congestive heart failure, poorly controlled hypertension, type 1 diabetes that has affected the vascular system, and 
moderate obesity. In severe systemic disease, there is no immediate danger of death. 
The medical record should justify the diagnosis that corresponds to severe systemic disease. 
Tips: The anesthesia modifiers P1 to P6 identify the health condition of the patient in whom the provider is going to 
administer the anesthesia. The identification of the health condition helps the payer to determine the complexity of 
the anesthesia case. Many payers will reimburse more for anesthesia identified with modifiers P2 to P5 because the 
patient's case is likely more complex. Payers will not reimburse more for modifier P1 because the patient is normal and 
healthy or for P6 because the patient is brain dead. 
The provider uses this modifier only with anesthesia codes that range from 00100 to 01999. Coders will not append this 
modifier; only the anesthesia provider will append it. 
P4 
A patient with severe systemic disease that is a constant threat to life 
558 
Definition: The provider administers anesthesia in an individual with severe systemic disease that is a constant threat 
to the life of the patient. 
Explanation: The anesthesia provider appends this modifier to an anesthesia code to show that the provider 
administers anesthesia to an individual with severe systemic disease that is a constant threat to life. 
Patients with severe systemic disease have a poorly controlled disease of more than one body system or one major 
body system. For example, the category includes patients with unstable angina, chronic renal failure, or symptomatic 
congestive heart failure. There is a possible risk and danger of death. 
The medical record should justify the diagnosis that corresponds to severe systemic disease that has a possible risk of 
death. 
Tips: The anesthesia modifiers P1 to P6 identify the health condition of the patient in whom the provider is going to 
administer the anesthesia. The identification of the health condition helps the payer to determine the complexity of 
the anesthesia case. Many payers will reimburse more for anesthesia identified with modifiers P2 to P5 because the 
patient's case is likely more complex. Payers will not reimburse more for modifier P1 because the patient is normal and 
healthy or for P6 because the patient is brain dead. 
The ?_rovider uses this mod_ifier on_ly with anesthesia codes that range from 00100 to 01999. Coders will not append this 
mod1f1er; only the anesthesia provider will append it. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
PS-PA 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
P5 
A moribund patient who is not expected to survive without the operation 
Definition: The provider administers anesthesia to a terminally ill individual who will not survive without the operative 
procedure. 
Explanation: The provider administers anesthesia in a critically ill patient who will not survive without the operation. 
The medical record should justify the diagnosis that corresponds to a critically ill or injured patient who requires a life 
saving surgery. 
Tips: The anesthesia modifiers P1 to P6 identify the health condition of the patient in whom the provider is going to 
administer the anesthesia. The identification of the health condition helps the payer to determine the complexity of 
the anesthesia case. Many payers will reimburse more for anesthesia identified with modifiers P2 to P5 because the 
patient's case is likely more complex. Payers will not reimburse more for modifier P1 because the patient is normal and 
healthy or for P6 because the patient is brain dead. 
The provider uses this modifier only with anesthesia codes that range from 00100 to 01999. Coders will not append this 
modifier; only the anesthesia provider will append it. 
P6 
A declared brain-dead patient whose organs are being removed for donor purposes 
Definition: The provider administers anesthesia in a brain dead individual undergoing organ removal for donor 
purposes. 
Explanation: The anesthesia provider appends this modifier to an anesthesia code to show that the provider 
administers anesthesia to a brain dead individual undergoing organ removal for donor purposes. 
Brain death is the complete and irreversible cessation of brain function as determined by two doctors not associated 
with the transplant team. 
The medical record should justify the diagnosis that corresponds to a brain dead individual for organ donor purposes. 
Tips: The anesthesia modifiers P1 to P6 identify the health condition of the patient in whom the provider is going to 
administer the anesthesia. The identification of the health condition helps the payer to determine the complexity of 
the anesthesia case. Many payers will reimburse more for anesthesia identified with modifiers P2 to P5 because the 
patient's case is likely more complex. Payers will not reimburse more for modifier P1 because the patient is normal and 
healthy or for P6 because the patient is brain dead. 
The provider uses this modifier only with anesthesia codes that range from 00100 to 01999. Coders will not append this 
modifier; only the anesthesia provider will append it. 
PA 
Surgical or other invasive procedure on wrong body part 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate an adverse event when the provider performs a surgical or other invasive 
procedure on the wrong body part. 
Explanation: The provider appends modifier PA to surgical codes when he performs a surgical or other invasive 
procedure on the wrong body part due to an error. He appends this modifier so that the insurer including Medicare 
knows not to provide reimbursement. Not adhering to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, 
guidelines of appending this modifier in situations where a provider performs a surgical or other invasive procedure on 
a body part that is not consistent with the correct documentation on the patient consent form may result in payment by 
the insurer and recoupment of the payment later on. 
Typically, the insurer considers all services the provider delivers in the operating room when an error occurs as related 
and considers them non covered as well. All other providers in the operating room when the error occurs, who bill 
individually for their services, are also not eligible for payment. Finally, all related services the patient receives during 
the same hospitalization in which the error occurs are usually not covered. 
Tips: Modifier PA notifies the insurer of the situation and ensures that the provider will not receive payment for the 
procedure done in error. Medicare also will not cover services related to the error. Using this modifier may increase 
malpractice risk. 
Use this modifier only with surgical codes. 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
559 
PB-PD 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
PB 
Surgical or other invasive procedure on wrong patient 
Definition: Append the PB modifier to indicate an adverse event when the provider performs a surgical or other 
invasive procedure on the wrong patient. 
Explanation: The provider appends modifier PB to codes when he performs a surgical or other invasive procedure on 
the wrong patient. He appends this modifier so that the insurer including Medicare knows not to provide reimbursement. 
Not adhering to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, guidelines of appending this modifier in 
situations where a provider performs a surgical or other invasive procedure on the wrong patient may result in payment 
by the insurer and recoupment of the payment later on. 
Typically, the insurer considers all services the provider delivers in the operating room when an error occurs as related 
and considers them non covered as well. All other providers in the operating room when the error occurs, who bill 
individually for their services, are also not eligible for payment. Finally, all related services the patient receives during 
the same hospitalization in which the error occurs are usually not covered. 
Tips: Modifier PB notifies the insurer of the situation and ensures that the provider will not receive payment for the 
procedure done in error. Medicare also will not cover services related to the error. Using this modifier may increase 
malpractice risk. 
PC 
Wrong surgery or other invasive procedure on patient 
Definition: Append the PC modifier to indicate an adverse event when the provider performs the wrong surgery or 
other invasive procedure on a patient. 
Explanation: The provider appends modifier PC to codes when he performs the wrong surgery or other invasive 
procedure on a patient. He appends this modifier so that the insurer including Medicare knows not to provide 
reimbursement. Not adhering to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, guidelines of appending 
this modifier in situations where a provider performs wrong surgery or other invasive procedure on patient may result in 
wrong payment by insurer and recoupment of the payment later on. 
Typically, the insurer considers all services the provider delivers in the operating room when an error occurs as related 
and considers them non covered as well. All other providers in the operating room when the error occurs, who bill 
individually for their services, are also not eligible for payment. Finally, all related services the patient receives during 
the same hospitalization in which the error occurs are usually not covered. 
Tips: Modifier PC will ensure that you will not receive reimbursement for the procedure done in error and Medicare also 
will not cover services related to the error. Using this modifier may increase malpractice risk. 
PD 
Diagnostic or related non diagnostic item or service provided in a wholly owned or operated entity to a patient 
who is admitted as an inpatient within 3 days 
Definition: Modifier PD is a payment modifier that a provider uses with diagnostic or related non diagnostic items or 
services that a provider delivers in a wholly owned or operated entity to a patient who becomes an inpatient within three 
days. 
Explanation: Append this modifier with Healthcare Common Procedure Code System, or HCPCS codes that 
the provider and supplier use to report preadmission diagnostic and non diagnostic services that relate to the 
admission. Use this modifier to identify that the entity providing the service is wholly owned or operated by the hospital 
and the patient who receives the services becomes an inpatient within three days. An entity is wholly owned by the 
hospital if the hospital is the sole owner of the entity. And, an entity is wholly operated by a hospital if the hospital has 
exclusive responsibility for conducting and overseeing the entity's routine operations, regardless of whether the hospital 
also has policymaking authority over the entity. 
Tips: If the entity is not wholly owned or operated by a hospital, do not append modifier PD. 
Medicare will pay for the professional component of codes with a technical professional split that a provider delivers 
within three calendar days. 
When practices append PD to a code that doesn't have both professional and technical components, Medicare will pay 
for the service based on the facility rate. 
560 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Pl-PO 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
Pl 
Positron emission tomography (PET) or PET/computed tomography (CT) to inform the initial treatment strategy 
of tumors that are biopsy proven or strongly suspected of being cancerous based on other diagnostic testing 
Definition: Append modifier Pl to a code for positron emission tomography, PET or PET computed tomography, CT 
imaging studies that a provider performs to help plan the initial treatment strategy in patients with tumors, suspected to 
be cancerous by other diagnostic testing or proven to be cancerous through a biopsy. The provider uses the study to 
determine the location or extent of the tumor. 
Explanation: Modifier Pl illustrates the use of imaging studies such as positron emission tomography, PET, or PET 
computed tomography, CT, in patients known or strongly suspected of having a cancerous tumor, an abnormal growth 
of tissue that rapidly multiples and spreads throughout the body destroying normal cells. 
Computed tomography is when the provider rotates an X-ray tube and detectors around a patient, which produces 
a tomogram, a computer generated cross sectional image, which providers use to diagnose, manage, and treat the 
disease. These studies enable the provider to plan an initial treatment strategy for patients with tumors that are proven 
on biopsy or suspected of being cancerous by other diagnostic tests. 
Tips: Append modifier Pl when services are related to F 18 fluoro D glucose or FDG PET imaging study. 
Append modifier Pl -for procedure codes, such as 78608, Brain imaging, positron emission tomography or PET; 
metabolic evaluation, and the PET range of codes 78811 through 78816. 
PL 
Progressive addition lenses 
Definition: Append modifier PL to a code for a patient undergoing eye procedures for progressive additional lenses. 
Explanation: Modifier PL illustrates an eye procedure in a patient for the fitting of progressive additional lenses. 
Tips: HCPCS Level II codes represent implantable materials used in the treatment of eye and ear disorders. These 
codes also report the supplies of visual aids such as contact lenses and glasses. 
PM 
Post mortem 
Definition: Append modifier PM to a code to identify post mortem visits to a patient. 
Explanation: Modifier PM identifies visits that occur after the death of a patient and on the same day as the patient's 
death, from visits occurring before death. 
Providers append the PM modifier for post mortem visits, on the date of death, regardless of the patient's level of care 
or site of service. The date of death is the date of death reported on the death certificate. 
Hospice providers are to report hospice visits that occur before death separately from those which occur after death. 
Tips: Do not report post mortem visits occurring on a date subsequent to the date of death, due to system limitations 
with reporting services after the date of the death. 
Report modifier PM when billing post mortem visits provided on the date of death beginning with services on or after 
April 1, 2014. 
PN 
Non-excepted service provided at an off-campus, outpatient, provider-based department of a hospital 
Definition: Modifier PN represents the technical component of non-excepted items and services. 
Explanation: With this modifier, hospitals are paid under the MPFS for non-excepted items and services, which are 
billed on the institutional claim and must be billed with a new claim line modifier PN to indicate that an item or service is 
a non-excepted item or service. The payment rate for these services will generally be 50 percent of the OPPS rate with 
some exceptions. Packaging, and certain other OPPS policies, will continue to apply to such services. Check the CMS 
website for specific reimbursement information related to services with modifier PN appended, as certain non-excepted 
services may be paid under MPFS. 
Do not append modifier PN to excepted items and services - Certain off-campus provider-based departments (PBDs) 
are permitted to continue to bill Medicare for excepted items and services under the OPPS. Excepted items and 
services are: 
All items and services furnished in a dedicated emergency department. Items and services that were furnished and 
billed by an off-campus PBD prior to November 2, 2015. Items and services furnished in a hospital department within 
250 yards of a remote location of the hospital. 
PO 
Excepted service provided at an off-campus, outpatient, provider-based department of a hospital 
Definition: Append the PO modifier to indicate a service, procedure, or surgery that takes place at a provider based 
hospital outpatient department, off campus. 
Explanation: A hospital facility appends modifier PO to a code for each service, procedure, or surgery that takes place 
at an off campus location in a provider based outpatient department. Off campus means a location physically separate 
from the immediate area of the hospital facility and or in a building located more than 250 yards away from the main 
hospital buildings. This is an informational modifier for data collection purposes. 
Tips: Individual providers should not append modifier PO and instead should use the appropriate place of service code 
to indicate outpatient services furnished in an on campus, remote, or satellite location of a hospital or in an off campus, 
provider based hospital setting. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
561 
PS-Ql 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
PS 
Positron emission tomography (PET) or PET/computed tomography (CT) to inform the subsequent treatment 
strategy of cancerous tumors when the beneficiary's treating physician determines that the pet study is 
needed to inform subsequent anti-tumor strategy 
Definition: A provider appends modifier PS to a positron emission tomography, or PET, or computed tomography, or CT 
scan to determine a subsequent treatment strategy of cancerous tumors when the provider determines he needs the 
PET study to determine a subsequent antitumor strategy for the patient. 
Explanation: Modifier PS illustrates the use of imaging studies such as positron emission tomography, PET, or 
computed tomography, CT, in patients having a cancerous tumor, or an abnormal growth of tissue that rapidly multiplies 
and spreads throughout the body destroying normal cells. 
A positron emission tomography, or PET scan is a nuclear medicine imaging technique, which produces a three 
dimensional image of functional processes in the body; the system detects pairs of gamma rays emitted indirectly by a 
positron emitting radionuclide, or tracer, which is introduced into the body on a biologically active molecule, or glucose. 
A computed tomography, or CT scan is when the provider rotates an X-ray tube and detectors around a patient, which 
produces a tomogram, a computer generated cross sectional image, which providers use to diagnose, manage, and 
treat the disease. These studies enable the provider to determine a subsequent treatment strategy for patients with 
cancerous tumors. 
Tips: Append modifier PS to all procedure codes that the provider bills with a cancer diagnosis codes such as, 78608, 
Brain imaging, positron emission tomography or PET; metabolic evaluation, and code range 78811 to 78816. 
While submitting claim for the professional component only, append modifier 26 first, and then append modifier PS. 
While submitting claim for the technical component only, append modifier TC first, and then append modifier PS. 
PT 
Colorectal cancer screening test; converted to diagnostic test or other procedure 
Definition: Append this modifier when a colorectal cancer screening test converts to a diagnostic or therapeutic 
procedure. 
Explanation: Append modifier PT when the provider performs screening colonoscopy, flexible sigmoidoscopy, or 
barium enema and finds and or removes a lesion or performs a biopsy during the same encounter. 
Tips: Modifier PT waives the deductible for services furnished in connection with or in relation to a colorectal cancer 
screening test furnished on the same date and in the same encounter as a colonoscopy, flexible sigmoidoscopy, or 
barium enema that were initiated as colorectal cancer screening services and that became diagnostic or therapeutic. 
Codes associated with this modifier fall in the range of 10021-69990, Surgery. 
QO 
lnvestigational clinical service provided in a clinical research study that is in an approved clinical research 
study 
Definition: Append modifier 00 for a service which the provider performs for an approved investigative clinical 
research study. 
Explanation: Approved investigational clinical services consist of services that the provider investigates as an objective 
within the study. Not all investigational clinical services are approved. lnvestigational clinical services may include 
services that are approved, unapproved, or otherwise covered or not covered under Medicare. 
Tips: Append modifiers 00 and 01 on outpatient provider claims for services provided in Medicare qualified clinical 
trials studies. These include trials that fall under the 2007 Medicare Clinical Trial Policy, trials that a specific National 
Coverage Determination or NCO, and investigational device exemption or IDE trials required. 
Q1 
Routine clinical service provided in a clinical research study that is in an approved clinical research study 
Definition: Append modifier 01 for a routine clinical service that the provider performs for a patient enrolled in an 
approved clinical research study. 
Explanation: The CMS defines routine clinical services as those items and services that Medicare typically covers for 
beneficiaries outside of the clinical research study that the provider uses for direct patient management within the study 
and that do not meet the definition of investigational clinical services. 
Routine clinical services may include items or services required solely for the provision of the investigational clinical
services, e.g., administration of a chemotherapeutic agent; clinically appropriate monitoring, whether or not required
by the investigational clinical service, e.g., blood tests to measure tumor markers; and items or services required for
the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of research related adverse events, e.g., blood levels of various parameters to
measure kidney function. 
Tips: App_end modifiers 00 an_d 01 on outpatient provider claims for services provided in Medicare qualified clinical 
trrals studies. These include trrals that fall under the 2007 Medicare Clinical Trial Policy, trials that a specific National 
Coverage Determination or NCO, and investigational device exemption or IDE trials requires. 
562 
CPI- is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Q2-Q4 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
Q2 
Demonstration procedure/service 
Definition: Append modifier 02 to services billed in conjunction with a demonstration procedure or service. 
Explanation: CMS conducts and sponsors demonstration projects to test and measure the effect of potential program 
changes. The demonstrations study the likely impact of new methods of service delivery, coverage of new types of 
service, and new payment approaches on beneficiaries, providers, health plans, states, and the Medicare Trust Funds. 
Append modifier 02 when the services involve demonstration of a procedure/service to allow accurate identification 
and documentation of payment for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in the demonstration. 
Q3 
Live kidney donor surgery and related services 
Definition: Append modifier 03 when the provider performs services related to care for a live kidney donor. 
Explanation: The provider appends modifier 03 for care for a live kidney donor to receive 100 percent reimbursement 
of the allowed charge. 
Live kidney donor services include those services which the provider performs during the preoperative, intraoperative, 
and postoperative periods. The provider bills these services to the carrier under the name and health insurance claim 
number of the kidney recipient. 
Tips: Medicare part B reimburses for services reported with modifier 03 if the provider bills the transplant surgery 
codes 50320, Donor nephrectomy including cold preservation; open, from living donor or 50547, Laparoscopy, surgical; 
donor nephrectomy including cold preservation, from living donor. 
Q4 
Service for ordering/referring physician qualifies as a service exemption 
Definition: Append this modifier when a provider orders a service from or refers a Medicare beneficiary to another 
service provider with whom the original provider has a financial relationship if the service provided qualifies as a service 
related exemption. 
Explanation: Service related exemptions permit a provider to refer a Medicare beneficiary to a service entity with 
whom the referring provider has a financial relationship. Append modifier 04 to the code for the service when an 
exemption applies. This modifier is for informational purposes only and does not affect the reimbursement. 
Tips: Unless an exception applies, if a physician or a member of a physician's immediate family has a financial 
relationship with a healthcare entity, the physician may not make referrals to that entity for the furnishing of designated 
health services, or OHS under the Medicare program. The following services are OHS: clinical laboratory services; 
physical therapy services; occupational therapy services; radiology services, including magnetic resonance imaging, 
computerized axial tomography scans, and ultrasound services; radiation therapy services and supplies; durable 
medical equipment and supplies; parenteral and enteral nutrients, equipment, and supplies; prosthetics, orthotics, 
and prosthetic devices and supplies; home health services; outpatient prescription drugs; and inpatient and outpatient 
hospital services. 
Individual payers may have policies that specify which nonphysicians you may use this modifier for. Check the payer's 
individual policy to be sure. 
CP-,. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
563 
QS-Q6 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
QS 
Service furnished under a reciprocal billing arrangement by a substitute physician or by a substitute physical 
therapist furnishing outpatient physical therapy services in a health professional shortage area, a medically 
underserved area, or a rural area 
Definition: Append modifier 05 when a substitute provider (physician or physical therapist) evaluates a patient under a 
reciprocal billing arrangement in a rural area or an area with a shortage of healthcare professionals or medical services. 
Explanation: Modifier 05 denotes when another provider examines or treats a patient due to absence of the regular 
provider and based on a prior agreement to cover for one another, when the care takes place in a rural or underserved 
area. The alternate provider should sign any reports documenting the care he provided. 
Tips: The patient's regular physician may submit the claim, and, if assignment is accepted, receive the Part B payment, 
for covered visit services, including emergency visits and related services, which the regular physician arranges to be 
provided by a substitute physician on an occasional reciprocal basis under the following conditions: 
The regular physician must not be available to provide the visit services; and 
The Medicare patient needs to arrange or seek to receive the visit services from the regular physician; and 
This modifier is to be used by providers who render services to patients in a rural area, an area where there is a 
shortage of healthcare professionals, or an otherwise underserved area. 
The substitute physician may not provide the visit services to Medicare patients over a continuous period of longer than 
60 days subject with an exception for the provider being on active military duty; and 
The regular physician must identify the services as substitute physician services by entering HCPCS code 05 modifier, 
service furnished by a substitute physician under a reciprocal billing arrangement, after the procedure code. 
The regular physician must keep on file a record of each service provided by the substitute physician, associated with 
the substitute physician's UPIN or NPI when required, and make this record available to the carrier upon request. 
If the only substitution services a physician performs in connection with an operation are postoperative services 
furnished during the period covered by the global fee, these services need not be identified on the claim as substitution 
services. A physician may have reciprocal arrangements with more than one physician. The arrangements need not be 
in writing. 
The regular physician is not entitled to bill and receive direct payment for substitute provider services furnished after 
the expiration of 60 days of the period. The substitute physician must bill for these services in his or her own name. The 
regular physician may, however, bill and receive payment for the services that the substitute physician provides on his 
or her behalf during the 60 day the period. 
The provider should append modifier 05 with the supporting documentation providing the reason for the service. 
Q6 
Service furnished under a fee-for-time compensation arrangement by a substitute physician or by a substitute 
physical therapist furnishing outpatient physical therapy services in a health professional shortage area, a 
medically underserved area, or a rural area 
Definition: Append this modifier when a locum tenens, or substitute, provider (physician or physical therapist) performs 
the services under a fee-for-lime compensation agreement, in a rural area or an area with a shortage of healthcare 
professionals or medical services. 
Explanation: Append modifier 06 when a locum tenens, or substitute, provider performs healthcare services in the 
absence of the original provider. 
Criteria for this modifier include that the regular physician is unavailable to provide the visit services; the Medicare 
beneficiary has arranged or seeks to receive the visit services from the regular physician; the regular physician pays 
the locum tenens for his or her services on a per diem or similar fee for time basis; the substitute physician does 
not provide the visit services to Medicare patients over a continuous period of longer than 60 days subject to some 
exceptions; the provider renders services to patients in a rural area, an area where there is a shortage of healthcare 
professionals, or an otherwise underserved area.; and the regular physician identifies the services as substitute 
physician services meeting the requirements of this section by entering HCPCS code modifier 06. 
Tips: The locum tenens provider provides a service when the original provider is not present to provide due to any 
illness, pregnancy, vacation or continuation of medical education. 
If a provider leaves a medical group and the group hires a locum tenens physician, the medical group must keep on file 
a record of each service which the substitute provider assumes and also takes a note of the substitute provider's PIN or 
NPI. Also, the provider identification number PIN or NPI of the provider who has left the medical group is written on the 
claim to indicate who the locum tenens provider is substituting for. 
This modifier is to be used by providers who render services to patients in a rural area, an area where there is a 
shortage of healthcare professionals, or an otherwise underserved area. 
This modifier has no effect on payment. 
564 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix 8 HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Q7-Q8 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
Q7 
One class A finding 
Definition: Append this modifier for foot care that involves at least one class A findings. The provider uses class 
findings to determine the level of foot care. Medicare does not cover routine foot care unless the patient is suffering 
from systemic conditions which lead to decreased sensation over the area of foot and leg or when the foot care is 
essential. 
Explanation: Append modifier Q7 when the provider identifies one class A finding. The provider uses class findings 
to determine the level of foot care. Class A findings include nontraumatic amputation of foot or integral skeletal portion 
thereof. Medicare covers the service when the provider renders foot care and identifies one class A finding. 
Medicare does not cover routine foot care unless the patient is suffering from systemic conditions which lead to 
decreased sensation over the area of foot and leg or when the foot care is essential. Services ordinarily considered 
routine might also be covered if they are performed as a necessary and integral part of otherwise covered services, 
such as diagnosis and treatment of diabetic ulcers, wounds, and infections or if the patient has peripheral neuropathy, 
i.e., decreased sensation in the extremities that might result in injury if the patient tries to take care of his or her nails.
Routine foot care involves excision of corns or calluses, maintenance of cleanliness of foot in bedridden patient, and
trimming or debridement of nails.
Tips: Append modifier 09, One class B and two class C findings, when the provider identifies one class B and two 
class C findings. 
Append modifier QB, Two class B findings, when the provider identifies two class B findings. 
Modifiers Q7, QB, and Q9 should usually be used with HCPCS code G0127, Trimming of dystrophic nails, any number, 
or CPT® codes 11055 to 11057, Paring or cutting of benign hyperkeratotic lesion, e.g., corn or callus, depending on 
number of lesions; 11719, Trimming of nondystrophic nails, any number; and when appropriate, 11720, Debridement of 
nails by any methods; 1 to 5; or 11721, Debridement of nails by any methods; 6 or more. 
QB 
Two class B findings 
Definition: Append this modifier for foot care required because of two class B findings. The provider uses class findings 
to determine the level of foot care. Medicare does not cover routine foot care unless the patient has systemic conditions 
which lead to decreased sensation over the area of foot and leg or when the foot care is essential. 
Explanation: Append modifier QB when the provider identifies two class B findings. The provider uses class findings 
to determine the level of foot care. Class B findings include absent posterior tibial pulse, absent dorsalis pedis pulse, 
advanced trophic changes which include any three of the following conditions, such as increased or decreased hair 
growth; nail thickening; or changes in color, texture, or reddening of the skin. 
Medicare does not cover routine foot care unless the patient has systemic conditions which lead to decreased 
sensation over the area of foot and leg or when the foot care is essential. Services ordinarily considered routine 
might also be covered if they are performed as a necessary and integral part of otherwise covered services, such as 
diagnosis and treatment of diabetic ulcers, wounds, and infections or if the patient has peripheral neuropathy, i.e., 
decreased sensation in the extremities that might result in injury if the patient tries to take care of his or her nails. 
Routine foot care involves excision of corns or calluses, maintenance of cleanliness of foot in bedridden patient, and 
trimming or debridement of nails. 
Tips: Append modifier Q9, One class B and two class C findings, when the provider identifies one class B and two 
class C findings. 
Append modifier Q7, One class A finding, when the provider identifies one class A finding. 
Modifiers Q7, QB, and Q9 should usually be used with HCPCS code G0127, Trimming of dystrophic nails, any number, 
or CPT® codes 11055 to 11057, Paring or cutting of benign hyperkeratotic lesion, e.g., corn or callus, depending on 
number of lesions; 11719, Trimming of nondystrophic nails, any number; and when appropriate, 11720, Debridement of 
nails by any methods; 1 to 5; or 11721, Debridement of nails by any methods; 6 or more. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
565 
Q9 - QC 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
Q9 
One class B and two class C findings 
Definition: Append this modifier for routine foot care services for one class B finding and two class C findings. The 
provider uses class findings to determine the level of foot care. Medicare does not cover routine foot care unless the 
patient has systemic conditions which lead to decreased sensation over the area of foot and leg or when the foot care 
is essential. 
Explanation: Append modifier Q9 when the provider identifies one class B and two class C findings. The provider 
uses class findings to determine the level of foot care. Class B findings include absent posterior tibial pulse, absent 
dorsalis pedis pulse, advanced trophic changes which include any three of the following conditions, such as increased 
or decreased hair growth; nail thickening; or changes in color, texture, or reddening of the skin. Class C findings include 
claudication, burning, coldness of the feet, edema, tingling or abnormal spontaneous sensations in the feet. 
Medicare does not cover routine foot care unless the patient has systemic conditions which lead to decreased 
sensation over the area of foot and leg or when the foot care is essential. Services ordinarily considered routine 
might also be covered if they are performed as a necessary and integral part of otherwise covered services, such as 
diagnosis and treatment of diabetic ulcers, wounds, and infections or if the patient has peripheral neuropathy, i.e., 
decreased sensation in the extremities that might result in injury if the patient tries to take care of his or her nails. 
Routine foot care involves excision of corns or calluses, maintenance of cleanliness of foot in bedridden patient, and 
trimming or debridement of nails. 
Tips: Append modifier Q8, Two class B findings, when the provider identifies two class B findings. 
Append modifier Q7, One class A finding, when the provider identifies one class A finding. 
Modifiers Q7, Q8, and Q9 should usually be used with HCPCS code G0127, Trimming of dystrophic nails, any number, 
or CPT® codes 11055 to 11057, Paring or cutting of benign hyperkeratotic lesion, e.g., corn or callus, depending on 
number of lesions; 11719, Trimming of nondystrophic nails, any number; and when appropriate, 11720, Debridement of 
nails by any methods; 1 to 5; or 11721, Debridement of nails by any methods; 6 or more. 
QA 
Prescribed amounts of stationary oxygen for daytime use while at rest and nighttime use differ and the average 
of the two amounts is less than 1 liter per minute {LPM) 
Definition: Add modifier QA to a code when a patient at rest requires different amounts of stationary oxygen during the 
daytime and nighttime but the average of the two amounts is less than 1 L per minute (LPM). 
Explanation: Use this modifier when the provider prescribes two different amounts of stationary oxygen for daytime 
and nighttime use for a patient at rest but the averaged amounts equal less than 1 L per minute. The prescribed oxygen 
amount depends upon the severity of disease. In severe conditions like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
or chronic respiratory failure (CRF) the lungs fail to provide sufficient oxygen to the body tissues. Sufficient oxygen is 
essential for all normal physiological functions. 
Tips: See QB, QE, QF, QG, QH and QR for other oxygen-related modifiers. 
QB 
Prescribed amounts of stationary oxygen for daytime use while at rest and nighttime use differ and the average 
of the two amounts exceeds 4 liters per minute (LPM) and portable oxygen is prescribed 
Definition: Append modifier QB when a provider prescribes different amounts of stationary oxygen for daytime and 
nighttime use for a patient at rest and the average of the two amounts is greater than 4 L per minute (LPM), when the 
patient also has portable oxygen prescribed. 
Explanation: Use this modifier when a patient at rest receives different amounts of provider-prescribed stationary 
oxygen for daytime and nighttime use and the two amounts average out to greater than 4 L per minute, and the patient 
also has portable oxygen. The prescribed oxygen amount depends upon the severity of disease. In severe conditions 
like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or chronic respiratory failure (CRF) the lungs fail to provide 
sufficient oxygen to the body tissues. Sufficient oxygen is essential for all normal physiological functions. 
Tips: Proper use of QB is important because Medicare increases monthly payment for oxygen when the patient has a 
prescription for portable oxygen in addition to stationary oxygen. 
See QA, QE, QF, QG, QH and QR for other oxygen-related modifiers. 
QC 
Single channel monitoring 
566 
Definition: Append this modifier for single channel monitoring. Report this modifier for informational purposes only; it 
does not affect payment. 
Explanation: Append modifier QC when the provider performs single channel monitoring. Report this modifier for 
informational purposes only; it does not affect payment. Providers routinely monitor patients in the ICU using single­
channel electrocardiogram, or ECG, monitoring. 
Tips: Individual payers may have policies that specify which nonphysicians you may use this modifier for. Check the 
payer's individual policy to be sure. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
QD-QG 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
QD 
Recording and storage in solid state memory by a digital recorder 
Definition: Append this modifier for recording and storage by a digital recorder in solid state memory. Report this 
modifier for informational purposes only; it does not affect payment. 
Explanation: Append modifier QD when the provider records and stores the voice data by a digital recorder in a solid 
state memory. Report this modifier for informational purposes only; it does not affect payment. 
Tips: Individual payers may have policies that specify which nonphysicians you may use this modifier for. Check the 
payer's individual policy to be sure. 
QE 
Prescribed amount of stationary oxygen while at rest is less than 1 liter per minute (LPM) 
Definition: Append this modifier when a provider prescribes oxygen at less than 1 L per minute (LPM) to a patient. This 
modifier may be appended only to HCPCS codes for stationary oxygen systems. 
Explanation: Append modifier QE when the supplier prescribes oxygen at less than 1 LPM using a stationary oxygen 
system for a patient. You should not append this modifier with codes for portable systems or oxygen contents. 
Tips: Append modifier QE with stationary gaseous E0424, Stationary compressed gaseous oxygen system, rental; 
includes container, contents, regulator, flow meter, humidifier, nebulizer, cannula or mask, and tubing or liquid E0439, 
Stationary liquid oxygen system, rental; includes container, contents, regulator, flowmeter, humidifier, nebulizer, cannula 
or mask, & tubing systems or with an oxygen concentrator E1390, Oxygen concentrator, single delivery port, capable of 
delivering 85 percent or greater oxygen concentration at the prescribed flow rate and E1391, Oxygen concentrator, dual 
delivery port, capable of delivering 85 percent or greater oxygen concentration at the prescribed flow rate, each. 
Fee schedule payments for stationary oxygen system rentals are all inclusive and represent a monthly allowance per 
beneficiary. Accordingly, a supplier must bill on a monthly basis for stationary oxygen equipment and contents furnished 
during a rental month. 
The monthly payment of stationary oxygen decreases by 50 percent if the home health agency supplies stationary 
oxygen. The suppliers bill this service by appending modifier QE. 
See QA, QB, QF, QG, QH and QR for other oxygen-related modifiers. 
QF 
Prescribed amount of stationary oxygen while at rest exceeds 4 liters per minute (LPM) and portable oxygen is 
prescribed 
Definition: Append modifier QF to a code for a patient who is oxygen dependent at rest and receiving more than 4 L of 
oxygen per minute via a stationary oxygen supply, and who has a provider-prescribed portable oxygen device. 
Explanation: Modifier QF illustrates the quantity of oxygen prescribed, more than 4 L per minute (LPM) to the lungs 
via a stationary oxygen supply for a patient at rest, as well as prescription of a portable oxygen device. The prescribed 
oxygen amount depends upon the severity of disease. In severe conditions like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) or chronic respiratory failure (CRF) the lungs fail to provide sufficient oxygen to the body tissues. Sufficient 
oxygen is essential for all normal physiological functions. 
Tips: When the oxygen supply is greater than 4 LPM without use of portable oxygen, use modifier QG (Prescribed 
Amount Of Stationary Oxygen While At Rest Is Greater Than 4 Liters Per Minute [LPM]). 
Proper use of QF is important because Medicare increases monthly payment for oxygen when the patient has a 
prescription for portable oxygen in addition to stationary oxygen. 
See QA, QB, QE, QG, QH and QR for other oxygen-related modifiers. 
QG 
Prescribed amount of stationary oxygen while at rest is greater than 4 liters per minute (LPM) 
Definition: Append modifier QG to a code for a patient who is oxygen dependent at rest, and the provider prescribes 
oxygen via stationary supply at more than 4 L per minute. 
Explanation: Modifier QG illustrates the quantity of oxygen prescribed via a stationary supply at more than 4 L per 
minute (LPM) for a patient at rest. The prescribed oxygen amount depends upon the severity of disease. In severe 
conditions like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or chronic respiratory failure (CRF), the lungs fail to 
provide sufficient oxygen to the body tissues. Sufficient oxygen is essential for all normal physiological functions. 
Tips: When the oxygen supply is greater than 4 LPM using a stationary supply, and the patient also has use of a 
portable oxygen supply, use modifier QG. 
Proper use of QG is important because Medicare increases monthly payment for oxygen when the patient has a 
prescription for portable oxygen in addition to stationary oxygen at greater than 4 LPM. 
See QA, QB, QE, QF, QH and QR for other oxygen-related modifiers. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
567 
QH-QM 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
QH 
Oxygen conserving device is being used with an oxygen delivery system 
Definition: Append modifier QH to indicate the patient uses a device that controls oxygen flow from an oxygen cylinder 
based on the rate of inhalation or by delivering pulses of oxygen at fixed volumes per breath. 
Explanation: Modifier QH represents use of an oxygen conserving device with an oxygen delivery system. Patients 
who are unable to breathe properly due to severe lung disease need supplemental oxygen. The oxygen conserving 
device, OCD, on a tank or portable oxygen concentrator makes the oxygen supply last longer. It makes oxygen therapy 
more efficient, more portable. and more cost effective. 
Tips: Medicare requires home health agencies and other suppliers to use modifier QH to indicate the use of an oxygen 
conserving device. 
See QE to QH for the range of oxygen related modifiers. 
QJ 
Services/items provided to a prisoner or patient in state or local custody, however the state or local 
government, as applicable, meets the requirements in 42 CFR 411.4 (b) 
Definition: Append modifier QJ to a code when the provider supplies the service or item to a patient in jail or custody, 
subject to the regulations at 42 CFR 411.4 (b). The regulations state Medicare may provide payment if the patient in 
custody has to repay the cost of the service or item provided to him. 
Explanation: Append modifier QJ only if a medical service or item goes to a prisoner or patient in custody whose state 
or local law requires him to pay for his own medical care, meeting the conditions of 42 CFR411 .4b. Typically the state 
or local government is responsible for covering the costs of patients in custody, but those regulations say that Medicare 
may pay for services provided to a person in custody if the situation meets two conditions. The first condition is that 
state or local law requires the person to repay the cost of medical service she received while in custody. The second 
condition is that the state or local government bills individuals who received medical care, whether under Medicare or 
not, and then the government follows the same debt collection practices it uses for other debts. 
Tips: You cannot use modifier QJ with service codes when the patient is not in jail or custody. 
It is incorrect to use modifier QJ if the patient is in jail but state or local government pays the medical bills. 
If Medicare denies a modifier QJ claim, you may appeal either by showing that the claim meets the conditions of 42 
CFR 411 .4b or by showing that the patient was not in custody under authority of penal statute. 
QK 
Medical direction of two, three, or four concurrent anesthesia procedures involving qualified individuals 
Definition: An anesthesiologist provides medical direction for two to four procedures that overlap each other. 
Explanation: When a physician performs medical direction of two to four concurrent procedures with anesthesia 
services by qualified individuals, the physician appends modifier QK. Examples of qualified individuals include certified 
registered nurse anesthetists (CRNAs), anesthesiologist assistants (AAs), interns, and residents. Concurrent means 
that there is some degree of overlap in the procedures. Depending on payer rules, one minute of overlap may be 
enough for procedures to be considered concurrent. 
Tips: Check payer rules regarding what qualifies as medical direction. 
QL 
Patient pronounced dead after ambulance called 
Definition: Append modifier QL to an ambulance code when an ambulance arrives and the patient has died on scene. 
Explanation: Modifier QL applies to those ambulance services in which the ambulance reaches the site where the
patient is, such as the accident site or home, and a qualified provider declares the patient legally dead before transport 
in the ambulance. 
Tips: If a provider declares a patient is dead after ambulance dispatch but before ambulance transport, use modifier 
QL to ensure proper payment. Medicare payment will reflect the basic life support base rate but not mileage or the 
adjustment for rural services. For payers other than Medicare, check their specific policies. 
QM 
Ambulance service provided under arrangement by a provider of services 
Definition: Append QM modifier to ambulance codes for ambulance services provided under arrangement between the 
provider and an ambulance company. 
Explanation: When the provider has an arrangement with an ambulance company for ambulance services, then 
provider appends modifier QM with such ambulance services. 
Tips: If the requesting provider and ambulance service provider are one and the same, append modifier QN, 
Ambulance service furnished directly by a provider of services. 
All HCPCS ambulance codes must have a QM or QN modifier. 
568 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
QN-QR 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
QN 
Ambulance service furnished directly by a provider of services 
Definition: Append modifier QN to codes for ambulance services supplied directly by the provider. 
Explanation: Use modifier QN to identify ambulance services the provider supplies directly rather than under financial 
arrangement with outside ambulance service providers. 
Tips: When the provider has an arrangement with an ambulance company for ambulance services, then provider 
appends modifier QM, Ambulance service provided under arrangement by a provider of services. 
When ambulance services are provided by another service provider, it may affect reimbursement for these services 
from outside vendor. 
All HCPCS ambulance codes must have a QN or QM modifier. 
QP 
Documentation is on file showing that the laboratory test(s) was ordered individually or ordered as a CPT®-
recognized panel other than automated profile codes 80002-80019, G0058, G0059, and G0060. 
Definition: Append modifier QP to laboratory service codes when the clinician orders the test as a single test, whether 
as an individual test or as a panel. 
Explanation: Laboratory providers append modifier QP to those single laboratory CPT® codes for individual tests or 
panel tests. For example, if the lab performs many tests like total serum cholesterol, triglycerides, and high density 
lipid profile, the lab may report them with the single laboratory code 80061, Lipid panel, with modifier QP. When you 
append this modifier, you're letting the payer know that you have documentation available that the clinician ordered an 
individual test or a panel represented by a single CPT® code. 
Tips: Modifier QP is an informational modifier that does not affect payment. 
Note: Codes 80002-80019, G0058, G0059, and G0060 are deleted CPT® and HCPCS codes, but are still included in 
this official descriptor from CMS. 
QQ 
Ordering professional consulted a qualified clinical decision support mechanism for this service and the 
related data was provided to the furnishing professional 
Definition: Append modifier QQ to a code for services for which the provider consulted and received qualified decision 
support in determining appropriate use criteria (AUC) before ordering an advanced imaging procedure. 
Explanation: Modifier QQ indicates that a provider accessed and received support from a qualified clinical decision 
support mechanism for a service he provided. Qualified clinical decision support mechanisms factor into appropriate 
use criteria (AUC) and quality measures required by certain Medicare/CMS participation programs. Qualified clinical 
decision support mechanism providers must meet certain requirements and be registered by CMS. 
Tips: A list of qualified clinical decision support mechanisms can be found at https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Quality-
I nitiatives-Patient-Assessment-I nstruments/ Appropriate-Use-Criteria-Program/CDSM .html. Beginning in January 2019, 
physicians must use AUC when ordering advanced imaging procedures such as CT, MRI, and PET for certain specific 
conditions. Providers can earn points for quality by employing AUC earlier than this deadline. 
QR 
Prescribed amounts of stationary oxygen for daytime use while at rest and nighttime use differ and the average 
of the two amounts is greater than 4 liters per minute (LPM) 
Definition: Add modifier QR to a code when a patient at rest requires different amounts of stationary oxygen during the 
daytime and nighttime and the average of the two amounts is greater than 4 L per minute (LPM). 
Explanation: Use this modifier when the provider prescribes two different amounts of stationary oxygen for daytime 
and nighttime use for a patient at rest and the two amounts average greater than 4 L per minute. The prescribed 
oxygen amount depends upon the severity of disease. In severe conditions like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) or chronic respiratory failure (CRF) the lungs fail to provide sufficient oxygen to the body tissues. Sufficient 
oxygen is essential for all normal physiological functions. 
Tips: When the daytime and nighttime oxygen supply averages greater than 4 LPM and the patient also has a 
prescribed portable oxygen supply, use modifier QB. 
See QA, QB, QE, QF, QG, and QH for other oxygen-related modifiers. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
569 
QS-QZ 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
QS 
Monitored anesthesia care service 
Definition: Append modifier QS to an anesthesia code when the anesthesia provider's services meet the definition 
of monitored anesthesia care, or MAC. MAC refers a combination of a local anesthetic with sedation generally 
administered by a provider who is qualified to provide general anesthesia. 
Explanation: Modifier QS indicates that the anesthesia provider, who may be an anesthesiologist or other qualified 
individual such as a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist, CRNA, or Anesthesiologist Assistant, AA, performs 
monitored anesthesia care. MAC involves monitoring the patient's vital signs while in the operating room, examination 
prior to anesthesia, the prescription for anesthesia care, and postoperative care. 
Tips: This modifier does not impact reimbursement; it is informational only. Use this modifier in addition to P modifiers 
for anesthesia codes. 
If anesthesia provider provides monitored anesthesia care for deep complex, complicated, or markedly invasive surgical 
procedure, use modifier GS. 
If anesthesia provider provides monitored anesthesia care for a patient who has history of severe cardiopulmonary 
condition, use modifier G9. 
Some payers may pay more for this modifier as long as reasons for providing MAC are medically necessary and 
documented in the record. 
QT 
Recording and storage on tape by an analog tape recorder 
Definition: Append modifier QT to any CPT® or HCPCS code when a recording is made on analog tape while 
performing any procedure. 
Explanation: Append this modifier when the provider records any procedure or part of a procedure on analog tape. 
This modifier does not impact reimbursement, it is purely informational only. 
Tips: You can use this modifier at the last modifier position after all other important modifiers. 
QW 
CUA waived test 
Definition: Append modifier QW to a laboratory test which has been waived from Clinical Laboratory Improvement 
Amendments requirements. It is compulsory to have CLIA number for such Centers. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to codes for individual laboratory tests that have been waived by the FDA from CLIA 
requirements. All medical laboratories, including physician office laboratories, must have CLIA certification in order to 
receive payments from Medicare and Medicaid. The FDA waives some individual tests from CLIA requirements, and 
CMS publishes a list of these CLIA waived tests quarterly. Lists of waived tests may be obtained from the CMS CLIA 
web page and clicking on Categorization of Tests in the menu and downloading Tests Granted Waived Status Under 
CLIA. Providers may use this list to determine if a particular test product can be appropriately performed by a laboratory 
with a CLIA waiver and is eligible to be billed using the QW modifier. 
QX 
CRNA service: with medical direction by a physician 
Definition: A certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) performs a service under the medical direction of a 
physician. 
Explanation: When a certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) performs an anesthesia service under the medical 
direction of a physician, the CRNA appends modifier QX on the claim. 
Tips: The anesthesiologist providing medical direction should use a different modifier, such as modifier QY. 
If a CRNA performs anesthesia services without medical direction, the CRNA should use modifier QZ. 
Check payer rules regarding what qualifies as medical direction. 
QY 
Medical direction of one certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) by an anesthesiologist 
Definition: An anesthesiologist provides medical direction of one certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA). 
Explanation: When an anesthesiologist provides medical direction of one certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) 
performing an anesthesia service, the anesthesiologist appends modifier QY on the claim. 
Tips: The CRNA performing the procedure should use modifier QX. 
See modifier QK for medical direction of two to four concurrent anesthesia procedures. 
Check payer rules regarding what qualifies as medical direction. 
QZ 
CRNA service: without medical direction by a physician 
Definition: A certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) performs a service that a physician does not provide 
medical direction for. 
Explanation: When a certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) performs an anesthesia service without the medical 
direction of a physician, the CRNA appends modifier QZ on the claim. 
Tips: If a CRNA performs anesthesia services with medical direction, use modifier QX. 
Check payer policy for rules regarding what qualifies as medical direction. 
570 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
RA-RE 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
RA 
Replacement of a DME, orthotic or prosthetic item 
Definition: Append the modifier RA when the provider replaces the durable medical equipment, prosthetics, or
orthotics, and supplies, or DMEPOS, when the beneficiary loses the item or damages it in such a way that it can't be
repaired. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to the claim for the replacement of DMEPOS when the supplier furnishes the 
beneficiary with a new item, identical to the original item, to replace a lost, stolen, or irreparably damaged item. 
Irreparable damage refers to the wear and tear of the equipment due to an accident, disaster, day to day use, or other 
event. The medical documentation must include the details related to the replacement of the item. 
Append the RA modifier on all DMEPOS claims where an item replaces the same item which has been lost, stolen, or 
irreparably damaged prior to the equipment's reasonable useful lifetime and also for billing replacement claims when 
the DMEPOS item has met its reasonable useful lifetime. CMS encourages suppliers to enter the abbreviation RUL 
which indicates reasonable useful lifetime and the date the beneficiary received the original equipment that is being 
replaced when billing for an item that has met its reasonable useful lifetime use. 
Tips: If the supplier replaces only a part of the item to repair it, use modifier RB, Replacement of a part of a DME, 
orthotic or prosthetic item furnished as part of a repair. 
RB 
Replacement of a part of a DME, orthotic or prosthetic item furnished as part of a repair 
Definition: Append the modifier RB when the provider replaces a part of the durable medical equipment, prosthetics, 
orthotics, and supplies, or DMEPOS, to repair the item. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to the claim for the replacement of a part of the DMEPOS, so as to repair the 
damage. The supplier furnishes the beneficiary with a new replacement part for a damaged or worn out part of the item. 
The medical documentation must include the details related to the replacement of the part of the item, including the 
amount of time the repair takes, the HCPCS code for the base equipment, that the patient owns the equipment, and the 
date the patient acquired the equipment. 
This modifier applies only to items that the beneficiary owns. If the beneficiary rents the DMEPOS item, the rental 
amount includes the cost of repair and maintenance. 
Tips: If the provider replaces the item completely, use modifier RA, Replacement of a DME, orthotic or prosthetic item. 
RC 
Right coronary artery 
Definition: Append modifier RC to a code for procedures on the right coronary artery. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to codes when the provider performs a procedure on the right coronary artery. The 
right coronary artery supplies blood to the right atrium and ventricle of the heart, i.e., the upper and the lower chamber 
of the heart respectively. 
Tips: The various types of procedures on the right coronary artery include angioplasty, atherectomy, stent placement, 
or grafting. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the left circumflex, append modifier LC, Left circumflex coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the left anterior descending artery, use modifier LO, Left anterior descending 
coronary artery. 
If the provider targets the main coronary artery, use modifier LM, Left main coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on ram us intermedius coronary artery, use modifier RI, Ramus intermedius 
coronary artery. 
RD 
Drug provided to beneficiary, but not administered "incident-to" 
Definition: Append modifier RD to a claim for a drug that the provider supplies to the beneficiary and the beneficiary 
may administer the drug on his own. 
Explanation: Report this modifier when the provider supplies a drug to the beneficiary which he may administer on his 
own. The phrase incident to refers to when the provider administers or supplies a drug as part of his services, such as 
those necessary to accomplish a primary procedure. 
RE 
Furnished in full compliance with FDA-mandated risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) 
Definition: Append modifier RE to report extended release or long acting opioid drugs that the provider supplies in 
compliance with the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to the code for an extended release, ER, or long acting, LA, opioid drug, which the 
provider supplies in compliance with the FDA's risk evaluation and mitigation strategy. 
ER, LA opioids are highly potent FDA approved drugs, such as morphine sulfate, fentanyl, oxycodone, and 
hydrocodone, used to treat moderate to severe persistent pain for serious and chronic conditions. The misuse and 
abuse of these drugs have resulted in a serious public health crisis of addiction, overdose, and death. The REMS 1s 
part of a multiagency federal effort to address the growing problem of prescription dru_g abuse and mis_use. The REMS 
introduces new safety measures to reduce risks and improve safe use of ER, LA op101ds while continuing to provide 
access to these medications for patients in pain. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
571 
RI-SB 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
RI 
Ramus intermedius coronary artery 
Definition: Append modifier RI to the codes for a procedure on the ramus intermedius coronary artery. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to the code when the provider performs a procedure on the ramus intermedius 
coronary artery. The ramus intermedius coronary artery branches off the left coronary artery, one of the major arteries
that supplies blood to the left atrium and ventricle of the heart, i.e., the upper and the lower chambers of the heart
respectively. 
Tips: The various types of procedures on the coronary artery include angioplasty, atherectomy, stent placement, or
grafting. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the left circumflex, append modifier LC, Left circumflex coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on the left anterior descending artery, use modifier LO, Left anterior descending 
coronary artery. 
If the provider targets the main coronary artery, use modifier LM, Left main coronary artery. 
If the provider performs a procedure on right coronary artery, use modifier RC, Right coronary artery. 
RR 
Rental (use the 'RR' modifier when DME is to be rented) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier RR to identify the use of rented durable medical equipment, or DME, items. 
Explanation: Append modifier RR for rented DME's. Durable medical equipments is medical equipment that helps a 
patient to manage his activities of daily living in an easier way or that provides therapeutic benefits to a patient. The 
equipment this modifier is typically applicable to may be inexpensive or other routinely purchased DME, frequent 
or substantial servicing, certain customized items, or oxygen equipment. A few examples of DME's are crutches, 
wheelchairs, commodes, canes, walkers, hospital beds, patient safety equipment, and fracture and traction apparatus. 
Tips: Append modifier RR for certain services that the provider submits to durable medical equipment Medicare 
Administrative Contractors. 
RT 
Right side (used to identify procedures performed on the right side of the body) 
Definition: Append this modifier to the code for a procedure that a provider performs on the patient's right side. 
Explanation: Use this modifier to identify a procedure on the right side of the body. This modifier usually applies to 
procedures on paired organs, such as eyes, nostrils, ears, ovaries, lungs, and kidneys. 
Tips: If the provider performs the procedure on the left side of the body, append modifier LT, Left side, to identify 
procedures performed on the left side of the body. 
If the provider carries out a procedure on both sides, i.e., on each organ of an organ pair, append modifier 50, Bilateral 
procedure. 
If the provider performs the service on an organ which is not paired, such as the right side of the back, do not append 
modifier RT, since there is only one back. 
SA 
Nurse practitioner rendering service in collaboration with a physician 
Definition: Append modifier SA when a nurse practitioner assists the provider in a procedure, other than a surgery. 
Explanation: Use this modifier to show that a nurse practitioner assists the provider in performing a procedure. This 
modifier should not be used with a surgery code. 
Nurse practitioner may refer to a certified registered nurse or an assistant. Nurse practitioners are graduates of a 
nursing program. 
Tips: Use this modifier when the provider bills a service on behalf of the nurse practitioner, who assists the provider 
during nonsurgical services. 
If a nurse midwife assists the provider, append modifier SB, Nurse midwife. 
SB 
Nurse midwife 
Definition: Append modifier SB when a nurse midwife performs a service, other than a surgery. 
Explanation: Use this modifier to show that a nurse midwife assists the provider in performing a nonsurgical 
procedure. This modifier should not be appended to a surgery code. 
Nurse midwives_ are certified graduates of a nursing program, who specialize in midwifery i.e., those who provide 
patient care during pregnancy and childbirth. 
Tips: Use this modifier when the provider bills a service on behalf of the nurse midwife, who assists the provider during 
nonsurgical services. 
If a nurse practitioner assists the provider, append modifier SA, Nurse practitioner rendering service in collaboration
with a physician. 
572 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
SC-SJ 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
SC 
Medically necessary service or supply 
Definition: Append modifier SC to codes for services or supplies deemed medically necessary under Medicare's 
coverage requirements. 
Explanation: The provider appends this modifier for the supply of medically necessary services. 
Medically necessary services and supplies are those that help to diagnose and treat a medical condition and meet the 
standard care of medical practice. 
SD 
Services provided by registered nurse with specialized, highly technical home infusion training 
Definition: Append modifier SD to infusion codes when a registered nurse or RN provides infusion services to a 
patient with a chronic illness who continues to need intravenous infusions at home after discharge from a hospital or 
rehabilitation Centers. 
Explanation: Append this modifier to infusion codes when a patient, who has a chronic illness and requires intravenous 
therapy for long term care, receives the service from a trained infusion nurse. Services include administering 
intravenous therapies, monitoring the patient's condition at home, and training the patient or caregiver how to properly 
clean and adjust intravenous tubes. 
Registered nurses are graduates of a nursing program who have passed a national licensing exam. Infusion nurses 
obtain specialized training and credentials to administer intravenous medications. 
Tips: Do not use modifier SD with infusion codes when the infusion is administered in a hospital setting. 
SE 
State and/or federally-funded programs/services 
Definition: Append modifier SE to codes for services that are paid by state or federal government. 
Explanation: Use modifier SE for those CPT® and HCPCS codes where the state or federal government pays the bills 
for the services or programs. 
SF 
Second opinion ordered by a professional review organization (PRO) per section 9401, p.l. 99-272 (100% 
reimbursement - no Medicare deductible or coinsurance) 
Definition: Append modifier SF to such CPT® codes where a quality improvement organization or QIO, also known as 
peer review organization or PRO, asks a provider to give a second opinion to confirm the decision of another provider. 
Codes with the SF modifier are reimbursed at 100% with no Medicare deductible or coinsurance if approved. 
Explanation: Append this code when a QIO or PRO asks a provider to give a second opinion for a decision or 
diagnosis made by another provider. When this modifier is applied, the patient does not pay a deducible or have to use 
coinsurance, and Medicare pays the provider 100% per section 9401, p.l. 99-272. 
Tips: You can use modifier SF only with certain eye surgery codes. 
SG 
Ambulatory surgical Centers (ASC) facility service 
Definition: Modifier SG appended to CPT® codes identified services provided by an ambulatory surgical Centers, 
which means facility fee only. Effective for services on or after January 1, 2008, the SG modifier is no longer applicable 
for Medicare services. ASC providers should discontinue applying the SG modifier on ASC facility claims. 
Explanation: Effective for services on or after January 1, 2008, the SG modifier is no longer applicable for Medicare 
services. ASC providers should discontinue applying the SG modifier on ASC facility claims. 
SH 
Second concurrently administered infusion therapy 
Definition: Append modifier SH to infusion codes for the second drug when a provider administers more than one drug 
at the same time by intravenous infusion. Use this code for intravenous infusion therapy codes administered in the 
patient's home. 
Explanation: When the provider administers two drugs at the same time by intravenous infusion in the patient's home, 
append this code. This modifier applies only to home infusion therapy. 
Tips: If provider administers three or more drugs by infusion therapy at the same time, use modifier SJ, Third or more 
concurrently administered infusion therapy. 
SJ 
Third or more concurrently administered infusion therapy 
Definition: Append modifier SJ to home infusion codes for each additional drug after the second when the provider 
administers multiple drugs at the same time by intravenous infusion. Use this code for intravenous infusion therapy 
codes administered in the patient's home. 
Explanation: When the provider administers three or more drugs at the same time by intravenous drug infusion in the 
patient's home, append modifier SH. This modifier applies only to home infusion therapy. 
Tips: If provider administers two drugs at the same time by intravenous infusion, use modifier SH, Second concurrently
administered infusion therapy. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
573 
SK-SN 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
SK 
Member of high risk population (use only with codes for immunization) 
Definition: Append modifier SK to immunization codes that are identified for those people who are at high risk for 
getting a disease, e.g., underlying medical conditions, weakened immune systems, work related, or other special 
circumstances that increase risk of illness. 
Explanation: When the provider provides immunization to people that he identifies as high risk, he appends modifier 
SK to such codes. High risk includes those with underlying medical conditions, weakened immune systems, work 
related, or other special circumstances that increase risk of illness. Identification of high risk individuals is determined 
by clinical expertise. Decisions regarding whether an individual is part of a high risk population and should receive a 
specific preventive item or service identified for those at high risk should be made by the attending provider. 
Tips: Do not use modifier SK for immunization codes that are given to patients who are not at high risk. 
SL 
State supplied vaccine 
Definition: Append modifier SL to vaccine codes that a state supplies and a provider administers at no cost to eligible 
individuals. 
Explanation: Each state provides some vaccines free of cost. Use modifier SL with immunization procedure codes to 
identify those immunization materials obtained from the state Department of Health to identify that the vaccine itself was 
obtained at no cost to the provider or patient. 
Tips: You may use this modifier with CPT® codes in the range of 90460 to 90474, Immunization administration for 
vaccines and toxoids that accurately reflects the administration of the vaccines. Do not append modifier SL to the 
administration procedure codes. 
Both the procedure code for the vaccine itself and the code for administration must be submitted, and all vaccines 
administered on a single date of service must be reported on the same claim. 
SM 
Second surgical opinion 
Definition: Append modifier SM to evaluation and management codes for claims by a consulting provider, when 
another provider has requested a second opinion. 
Explanation: Use this modifier when you submit an evaluation and management code for a second opinion. The 
provider performing the second opinion submits the code with the modifier. 
Tips: This modifier may be used with CPT® and HCPCS level II codes. 
Patient initiated second opinions that relate to the medical need for surgery or for major nonsurgical diagnostic and 
therapeutic procedures, e.g., invasive diagnostic techniques such as cardiac catheterization and gastroscopy, are 
covered under Medicare. In the event that the recommendation of the first and second physician differs regarding the 
need for surgery, or other major procedure, a third opinion is also covered. Second and third opinions are covered 
even though the surgery or other procedure, if performed, is determined not covered. Payment may be made for the 
history and examination of the patient and for other covered diagnostic services required to properly evaluate the 
patient's need for a procedure and to render a professional opinion. In some cases, the results of tests done by the first 
physician may be available to the second physician. 
SN 
Third surgical opinion 
Definition: Use this modifier when you submit an evaluation and management code for a third opinion. The provider 
performing the third opinion submits the code with the modifier. 
Explanation: Use this modifier when you submit an evaluation and management code for a third opinion. The provider 
performing the third opinion submits the code with the modifier. A third opinion might be requested when the original 
provider and the consultant come to different conclusions. 
Tips: Patient initiated second opinions that relate to the medical need for surgery or for major nonsurgical diagnostic 
and therapeutic procedures, e.g., invasive diagnostic techniques such as cardiac catheterization and gastroscopy, 
are covered under Medicare. In the event that the recommendation of the first and second physician differs regarding
the need for surgery, or other major procedure, a third opinion is also covered. Second and third opinions are covered
even though the surgery or other procedure, if performed, is determined not covered. Payment may be made for the 
hiskory and examination of the patient and for other covered diagnostic services required to properly evaluate the 
palie_nt's need for a pr?cedure and to render a professional opinion. In some cases, the results of tests done by the first 
phys1c1an may be available to the second physician. 
574 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
SQ-SV 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
SQ 
Item ordered by home health 
Definition: Append this modifier to indicate that the item the provider orders is for home health service in a patient's 
home. 
Explanation: Append modifier SQ for an item ordered for a patient receiving home health services such as home 
infusion therapy, catheter care or maintenance, and respiratory therapy equipment and services. 
A provider may need to use the SQ modifier for medical and dressing supplies, or durable medical equipment, DME to 
indicate that the item is for home health use. For coverage of an item, medical documentation for the item and a dated 
order is generally necessary, with some items requiring preauthorization. 
Tips: This modifier is not covered by Medicare. However, some other payers may allow the claim to process under their 
home care benefit without a copayment when the provider appends this modifier. 
For rented durable medical equipment, or DME, use modifier RR, Rented equipment. 
ss 
Home infusion services provided in the infusion suite of the IV therapy provider 
Definition: Append modifier SS when the therapy provider introduces a requisite drug at a specific dosage and at a 
specific rate into the patient's blood vessels at the infusion therapy providers outpatient infusion suite, a medical office 
that provides outpatient infusion services. 
Explanation: Append modifier SS when the provider prepares the infusion equipment or provides administration and 
supplies using the provider's own infusion suite. For example, a typical infusion may involve the provider using an 
intravenous line connected to a small mechanical pump to administer the drug at the prescribed rate for the prescribed 
length of time. The time recorded is for the duration of the patient service in the suite. 
Providers append the modifier to applicable HCPCS codes, which may include: S5522, PICC line insertion, supplies 
catheter excluded; S5520, PICC line kit; S5523, Midline insertion, supplies catheter excluded and S5521, Midline kit. 
Tips: This modifier is not covered by Medicare. However, some other payers may allow the claim to process under the 
home care benefit without a copayment. 
If a nurse does the infusion, use modifier SD, Services provided by registered nurse with specialized, highly technical 
home infusion training. 
ST 
Related to trauma or injury 
Definition: Append modifier ST to services the provider performs in the case of trauma or injury. 
Explanation: Append modifier ST to report procedures or services which the provider performs on a patient who has 
undergone a trauma or injury. 
Tips: This modifier is not covered by Medicare but other payers may allow the addition of the ST modifier to codes 
associated with a trauma patient's care, as long as the care is related to the trauma. 
The ST modifier may permit a supplemental payment for designated trauma Centers and enhanced rates to providers 
for trauma cases that meet specific criteria. If a trauma response team associated with hospital provides intensive level 
of examination and care that a Medicare patient requires, use code G0390, Trauma services associated with critical 
care services. Medicare policies provide coverage for critical care services of less than 30 minutes provided to the 
beneficiaries. 
SU 
Procedure performed in physician's office (to denote use of facility and equipment) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier SU to indicate where the provider performs the service in order to show that 
the provider uses his own facility and equipment while performing a procedure on the patient. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier SU as an informational modifier to show the location of the service relative to 
the costs associated with the procedure that the provider performs for the patient. This may include the costs of running 
an office such as rent, equipment, supplies, and nonphysician staff costs, which may be referred to as the practice 
expense. 
Tips: Modifier SU is not payable by Medicare. 
sv 
Pharmaceuticals delivered to patient's home but not utilized 
Definition: A provider appends modifier SV to the pharmaceuticals or drugs that a patient receives in the home but the 
patient never uses them. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier SV as an informational modifier to indicate drugs that a patient receives in 
his home setting but never uses them. There are various reasons for the patient not using the drugs, such as a change 
in the patient's condition, the patient dies, or the patient is admitted to a hospital or skilled nursing facility, or other 
facility. 
Tips: Modifier SV is not payable by Medicare. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
575 
SW-T2 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
SW 
Services provided by a certified diabetic educator 
Definition: Append modifier SW to identify services that a certified diabetic educator provides to a diabetic patient. 
Explanation: Append modifier SW to denote services that a certified diabetic educator provides to a diabetic patient 
about lifestyle modification and self management. 
He may give training to the patient on how to monitor blood glucose levels, educate the patient about diet and exercise, 
and provide awareness about insulin treatment plans. The educator provides these services according to the instruction 
of the provider, who is managing the patient's diabetes condition. 
Certification from the provider, who is managing the patient's condition, is necessary regarding the patient's needs and 
implementation for the coverage of the service. 
Tips: Medicare provides coverage for diabetes self management education and training, which is provided by a 
certified provider in accordance with Medicare policies. Reimbursement is based on carrier judgment. 
SY 
Persons who are in close contact with member of high-risk population (use only with codes for immunization) 
Definition: Append this modifier to codes for immunizations a patient receives who either cares for or works closely 
with patient who are highly prone to infection or a disease. 
Explanation: Append this informational modifier with codes for immunization of persons in close contact with patients 
who come under the category of high risk population, meaning patients who may have a preexisting risk factor, 
pathology, or decreased immunity and are more likely to be affected with an infection or disease. 
Append this modifier with codes for immunizations such as G0008, Administration of influenza virus vaccine, or CPT® 
90371, Hepatitis B immune globulin (HBlg), human, for intramuscular use. This code includes the provider counseling 
the patient or family. 
Tips: Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
For immunizations of a member of a high risk population, use modifier SK, Member of high risk population, use only 
with codes for immunization. 
T1 
Left foot, second digit 
Definition: Append modifier T1 to identify that the provider performs the procedure on the second digit, or toe, of the 
left foot. 
Explanation: This modifier identifies services that the provider performs on the second digit, or toe, of a patient's left 
foot. Use this modifier for services such as amputation, arthrodesis, or fusion of joints of the toe, a repair, revision or 
reconstruction procedure, removal of foreign body from within the toe and nail bed procedures. 
Tips: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier T5 represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(toes) of the right foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
T2 
Left foot, third digit 
Definition: Append modifier T2 to identify that the provider performs a procedure on the third digit, or toe, of the left 
foot. 
Explanation: This modifier identifies services that a provider performs on the third digit, or toe, of a patient's left 
foot. Use this modifier for services such as amputation, arthrodesis or fusion of joints of the toe, a repair, revision or 
reconstruction procedure, removal of foreign body from within the toe and nail bed procedures. 
Tips: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier T5 represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(toes) of the right foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on
different sites or different sides of the body. 
576 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
T3-T6 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
T3 
Left foot, fourth digit 
Definition: Append modifier T3 to identify that the provider performs a procedure on the fourth digit, or toe, of the left 
foot. 
Explanation: This modifier identifies services that the provider performs on the fourth digit, or toe, of a patient's left 
foot. Use this modifier for services such as amputation, arthrodesis or fusion of joints of the toe, a repair, revision or 
reconstruction procedure, removal of foreign body from within the toe and nail bed procedures. 
Tips: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier T5 represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(toes) of the right foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
T4 
Left foot, fifth dig it 
Definition: Append modifier T4 to identify that the provider performs a procedure on the fifth digit, or toe, of the left foot. 
Explanation: This modifier identifies services that a provider performs on the fifth digit, or toe, of a patient's left 
foot. Use this modifier for services such as amputation, arthrodesis or fusion of joints of the toe, a repair, revision or 
reconstruction procedure, removal of foreign body from within the toe and nail bed procedures. 
Tips: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier T5 represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(toes) of the right foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
TS 
Right foot, great toe 
Definition: Append modifier T5 to identify that the provider performs a procedure on the great toe of the right foot. 
Explanation: This modifier identifies services that a provider performs on the great toe of a patient's right foot. Use 
this modifier for services such as amputation, arthrodesis (fusion) of joints, repair, revision, reconstruction, removal of a 
foreign body, and nail bed procedures. 
Tips: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T4 represent the second through 
fifth digits (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier T5 represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the second through fifth 
digits (toes) of the right foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
T6 
Right foot, second digit 
Definition: Append modifier T6 to identify that the provider performs a procedure on the second digit, or toe, of the right 
foot. 
Explanation: This modifier identifies services that a provider performs on the second digit, or toe, of a patient's right 
foot. Use this modifier for services such as amputation, arthrodesis or fusion of joints of the toe, a repair, revision or 
reconstruction procedure, removal of foreign body from within the toe and nail bed procedures. 
Tips: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T4 represent the 2nd through 5th 
digits (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier T5 represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(toes) of the right foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
577 
T7-TA 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
T7 
Right foot, third digit 
Definition: Append modifier T7 to identify that the provider performs a procedure on the third digit, or toe, of the right
foot. 
Explanation: This modifier identifies that the provider performs the procedure on the third digit, or toe, of a patient's
right foot. Use this modifier for services such as amputation, arthrodesis or fusion of joints of the toe, a repair, revision 
or reconstruction procedure, removal of foreign body from within the toe and nail bed procedures. 
Tips: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T 4 represent the 2nd through 5th
digits (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier TS represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(toes) of the right foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
TS 
Right foot, fourth digit 
Definition: Append modifier T8 to identify that the provider performs a procedure on the fourth digit, or toe, of the right
foot. 
Explanation: This modifier identifies services that the provider performs on the fourth digit, or toe, of a patient's right
foot. Use this modifier for services such as amputation, arthrodesis or fusion of joints of the toe, a repair, revision or 
reconstruction procedure, removal of foreign body from within the toe and nail bed procedures. 
These modifiers help to prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
Tips: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T4 represent the 2nd through 5th
digits (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier T5 represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(toes) of the rig ht foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
T9 
Right foot, fifth digit 
Definition: Append modifier T9 to identify that the provider performs a procedure on the fifth digit, or toe, of the right
foot. 
Explanation: This modifier identifies services that the provider performs on the fifth digit, or toe, of a patient's right
foot. Use this modifier for services such as amputation, arthrodesis or fusion of joints of the toe, a repair, revision or 
reconstruction procedure, removal of foreign body from within the toe and nail bed procedures. 
Tips: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T4 represent the 2nd through 5th
digits (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier T5 represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits 
(toes) of the right foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
TA 
Left foot, great toe 
Definition: Append modifier TA to identify that the provider performs a procedure on the great toe of the left foot.
Explanation: This modifier identifies services that the provider performs on the great toe of a patient's left foot. Add
this modifier to codes for services such as amputation, arthrodesis, or fusion of joints of the toe, a repair, revision or 
reconstruction procedure, removal of foreign body from within the toe and nail bed procedures. 
T!p_s: Modifier TA represents the great toe of the left foot, and modifiers T1 through T 4 represent the 2nd through 5th
drgrts (toes) of the left foot respectively. 
Modifier T5 represents the great toe of the right foot, and modifiers T6 through T9 represent the 2nd through 5th digits
(toes) of the right foot, respectively. 
These modifiers help prevent denials when the provider submits duplicate codes to report separate procedures on 
different sites or different sides of the body. 
578 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
TB-TE 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
TB 
Drug or biological acquired with 340b drug pricing program discount, reported for informational purposes for 
select entities 
Definition: Select entities, as defined by the applicable 340B Drug Pricing Program rules, append informational 
modifier TB to a code for a drug or biological (a drug derived from a living organism using biotechnology) purchased at 
a discount under the program. 
Explanation: Modifier TB indicates that a drug was purchased at a discount as determined under the 340B Drug 
Pricing Program. Select entities, as defined by the program, use this modifier for informational purposes in line with 
340B program reporting rules. 
Biological refers to a drug or agent derived from human, animal, or microorganism components using biotechnology; 
examples include cells, genes, tissues, recombinant proteins, vaccines, allergens, and blood and blood components. 
Tips: Medicare pays an adjusted amount for certain separately payable drugs or biologicals acquired through the 340B 
program and furnished to a Medicare beneficiary by certain hospitals. 
Modifier JG is similar to TB, but JG but does not refer to "select entities." Check the program rules that apply to the 
specific claim to determine the definition of "select entities." Program rules may vary over time. 
TC 
Technical component; under certain circumstances, a charge may be made for the technical component 
alone; under those circumstances the technical component charge is identified by adding modifier 'TC' to the 
usual procedure number; technical component charges are institutional charges and not billed separately by 
physicians; however, portable X-ray suppliers only bill for technical component and should utilize modifier TC; 
the charge data from portable X-ray suppliers will then be used to build customary and prevailing profiles 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TC to bill for the technical component of a test only. 
Explanation: Append modifier TC to report the technical component of a procedure that has both a technical and 
professional component, the payment for which consists of the practice and the malpractice expenses. The provider 
commonly appends this modifier to procedures such as injection administration, laboratory, radiology, surgery, and 
radiation therapy. 
Tips: Append modifier TC if the procedure reads as 1, in the PC or TC indicator on the Medicare physician fee 
schedule database, or MPFSDB. 
As modifier TC is a payment modifier, report this modifier as the first modifier. 
TD 
RN 
Definition: A provider appends this license level modifier TD when a registered nurse, or RN, provides services to 
a patient. A license level modifier such as TD represents the treating provider's license level that some payers base 
reimbursement upon. 
Explanation: A provider may use this modifier to show that a registered nurse helps the provider perform a service. 
This modifier should not be used with a surgery code. The modifier may also be applicable for behavioral health use, 
or for home health billing. The nurses may only provide services and bill for codes that fall within the scope of practice 
allowed by their professional training and state licensure. Check state specific requirements and payer's guidelines for 
all applicable uses for this code. 
Tips: If a nurse midwife assists the provider, append modifier SB, Nurse midwife. 
If a nurse practitioner assists the provider with a service, append modifier SA, Nurse practitioner rendering service in 
collaboration with a physician. 
TE 
LPN/LVN 
Definition: Append this license level modifier TE when a licensed practical nurse, LPN, or a licensed vocational nurse, 
LVN, provides services to a patient. A license level modifier represents the treating provider's license level that some 
payers base reimbursement upon. 
Explanation: A provider may use this modifier to show that a licensed practical nurse or a licensed vocational nurse 
helps the provider perform a service. This modifier stands for a licensed practical nurse, or LPN, in most of the United 
States. In other areas such as California and Texas, they are also known as a licensed vocational nurse, or LVN. An 
LPN or LVN takes care of patients who are ill, disabled, or injured. They work under the direction of a supervising 
physician. 
This modifier should not be used with a surgery code. The modifier may also be applicable for behavioral health use, 
or for home health billing. The nurses may only provide services and bill for codes that fall within the scope of practice 
allowed by their professional training and state licensure. Check state specific requirements and payer's guidelines for 
all applicable uses for this code. 
Tips: Medicare does not pay for this modifier. If a nurse midwife assists the provider, append modifier SB, Nurse
midwife. 
If a nurse practitioner assists the provider with a service, append modifier SA, Nurse practitioner rendering service in 
collaboration with a physician. 
If a registered nurse assists the provider, append the modifier TD, RN. 
579 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
TF-TL 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
TF 
Intermediate level of care 
Definition: A provider may append this tier level modifier of TF when the patient receives services at an intermediate 
level of care. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that the patient receives an intermediate level of care. A provider determines 
a patient's level of care by the type and amount of assistance or care the patient requires. An intermediate level is 
physician supervised service of a patient that typically does not need continuous care or daily therapeutic treatment. 
Some payers also require this modifier for physical, and or occupational therapy services, home management activities 
assistance, and even when reporting some tiered office level services. Medicare may even require this modifier at times 
such as on provider claims for demonstration services to indicate a level of complexity. 
Tips: Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
If the patient receives a complex or high level of care, append modifier TG, Complex high level of care. 
TG 
Complex/high tech level of care 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TG when a patient receives a complex or high level of care. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that the patient receives a complex or high level of care. A provider determines a 
patient's level of care by the type and amount of assistance or care the patient requires. The patient with a complex or 
high level of care may have multiple conditions simultaneously, or a critical condition that necessitates a highly skilled 
and complex level of care, which one or more multispecialty providers may render in a well equipped facility. This may 
be combined with behavioral health problems, limited functional capabilities, and other patient needs. A provider uses 
this code to indicate a more intense level of service and a higher complexity of treatment. 
Tips: Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
If the patient receives an intermediate level of care, append modifier TF, Intermediate level of care. 
TH 
Obstetrical treatment/services, prenatal or postpartum 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TH when a female patient receives medical care for problems related to her 
pregnancy and following the birth of the child. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that a female patient receives medical care for problems related to her pregnancy 
and following the birth of the child. 
The provider may render requisite treatment for the various aspects of pregnancy, including monitoring the health of the 
mother and providing medical support for the recovery of the mother following a cesarean or normal delivery. 
Tips: Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
TJ 
Program group, child and/or adolescent 
Definition: Append modifier T J when a group of children or adolescents receive a treatment or therapy program 
together as a group. 
Explanation: This modifier indicates that the provider renders a service or provides therapy to a group of children or 
adolescent patients together at the same session. Some states may use to flag service for children's screening exams 
or mental health services, too. 
Tips: Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
TK 
Extra patient or passenger, non-ambulance 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TK for a nonambulance vehicle transport of a patient with the patient's 
caregiver or parent, or an extra patient or passenger. 
Explanation: Use this modifier when a non ambulance vehicle such as a wheel chair van, mini bus or mobility van 
carries a patient and their caregiver or parent, or an extra patient or passenger. A multiple carry trip for example 
typically consists of two or more patients who a provider transports on the same trip. 
Tips: Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
TL 
Early intervention/individualized family service plan (IFSP) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TL when the provider charts out an early intervention or an individualized 
service plan for a patient. 
Explanation: Use modifier TL if the provider suggests an early intervention plan for a patient with a condition such as 
developmental Pelay, one of a group of disorders a patient can develop in childhood, affecting behavioral growth and 
development skills. _The p_rov1der may also offer a customized plan that he charts out according to the specific needs of
the patient and family. This type of service is often known as an individualized family service plan, or IFSP. 
Tips: The T modifiers are the HCPCS modifiers for procedures, supplies and durable medical equipment codes.
Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
580 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
TM-TR 
Mod 
TM 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
Individualized education program (IEP) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TM when the provider charts out an individualized service plan, or IEP for a 
patient. 
Explanation: Use modifier TM if the provider suggests a customized patient education plan that he charts out 
according to the specific needs of the patient and family. A comprehensive IEP treatment plan developed for a specific 
child may include behavior health, physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, and audiology services 
along with screening and assessment services and even IEP specialized transportation. 
Tips: The T modifiers are the HCPCS modifiers for procedures, supplies, and durable medical equipment codes. 
Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
TN 
Rural/outside providers' customary service area 
Definition: A provider appends this modifier to services he provides in a rural area or an area outside his normal 
service area. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier TN as an informational modifier to identify services he provides in a rural 
area or area outside his normal service area such as outside the county in which the provider is located. This modifier 
may also identify such services as nonambulance transportation services, home health or hospice services, respite 
care services, and nursing care, or therapy services a provider renders outside their regular service area. 
Tips: This modifier may be applicable with certain transportation codes. 
TP 
Medical transport, unloaded vehicle 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TP to indicate mileage when a patient is not present in the vehicle. 
Explanation: Use this informational modifier to indicate unloaded mileage when submitting claims for nonemergency 
transport services such as a wheelchair van, mini bus, or mobility van. Transportation providers are normally paid for 
loaded mileage, or the time a patient is actually in the vehicle. An unloaded vehicle usually refers to when a patient is 
not present in the vehicle. Any unloaded mileage is usually inclusive in the base rate for these services. 
Tips: The T modifiers are the HCPCS modifiers for procedures, supplies, and durable medical equipment codes. 
Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
Some payers may also require use of modifier TP with procedure codes A0021 to A0999, which identify all 
transportation services, including ambulance. 
TQ 
Basic life support transport by a volunteer ambulance provider 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TQ when a volunteer ambulance provider performs a basic life support 
transport. 
Explanation: Use this modifier when a volunteer ambulance provider performs a basic life support level of service 
patient transport to the requisite destination. Basic life support services, or BLS services, require the ambulance 
provider meet certain guidelines, which may include at least two attendants in the ambulance, one of which must be a 
certified emergency medical technician, or EMT, legally approved to operate all lifesaving and life-sustaining equipment. 
Tips: The T modifiers are the HCPCS modifiers for procedures, supplies, and durable medical equipment codes. 
Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
Some payers may also require use of modifier TP with procedure codes A0021 to A0999, which identify all 
transportation services, including ambulance. 
TR 
School-based individualized education program (IEP) services provided outside the public school district 
responsible for the student 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TR when the provider performs school based customized education program 
services. He provides these services outside the public school district responsible for the student. 
Explanation: Use HCPCS modifier TR when the provider renders a personalized school based education program for 
a student. He provides this individualized education service, or IEP, outside the public school district responsible for 
the student. A comprehensive IEP treatment plan developed for a specific child may include behavior health, physical 
therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, and audiology services, along with screening and assessment services, 
and even IEP specialized transportation. 
Tips: The T modifiers are the HCPCS modifiers for procedures, supplies, and durable medical equipment codes. 
Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
581 
TS-TW 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
TS 
Follow-up service 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TS for a follow up service for a patient after a first or initial service or 
procedure. 
Explanation: Use this HCPCS modifier when the provider renders follow up service subsequent to the initial service or 
procedure. In the follow up service, the provider monitors the recovery or prognosis of the patient's condition. He may 
also advise additional measures to manage new symptoms that may emerge since the patient's last visit. 
Tips: The T modifiers are the HCPCS modifiers for procedures, supplies, and durable medical equipment codes. 
Medicare individuals with a diagnosis of prediabetes and certain risk factors may receive up to two screening tests per 
year and one screening test every six months. A provider reports these screening services with the appropriate Glucose 
code from the range 82947 to 82951 and modifier TS to indicate the service is a follow up service. 
TT 
Individualized service provided to more than one patient in same setting 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TT when the provider offers an individualized service to more than one patient 
in the same setting. 
Explanation: Use the HCPCS modifier TT when the provider renders personalized service to each of two or more 
patients in the same setting. This modifier may identify services provided to two patients who reside in the same 
residence. The provider generally delivers the service simultaneously. The services can range from nursing services, to 
multiple passenger transports, to behavior therapy services. 
Tips: The T modifiers are the HCPCS modifiers for procedures, supplies, and durable medical equipment codes. 
Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
TU 
Special payment rate, overtime 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TU for a special payment rate when the provider performs overtime work, 
or time worked before or after normally scheduled hours. 
Explanation: Use HCPCS modifier TU to denote the special payment rate that applies when the provider performs 
services overtime. For example some payers may reimburse for after hours care provided outside the normal business 
hours, including weekends or holidays and before 8 am and after 5 pm; Monday through Friday. In these situations the 
payer may require the provider to report the services with the TU modifier in order to receive the special rate. 
Tips: The T modifiers are the HCPCS modifiers for procedures, supplies, and durable medical equipment codes. 
Medicare does not pay for this modifier. 
TV 
Special payment rates, holidays/weekends 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TV to all services that a patient receives on holidays or weekends, to advise 
the payer that special payment rates may apply. 
Explanation: Append modifier TV for additional reimbursement for delivery of service at times other than regularly 
scheduled office hours. This may include, such situations as off hours care, or extended care on a weekend or holiday, 
when the office is normally closed. 
Tips: Modifier TV is not payable by Medicare. 
A provider may use modifier TV for a patient who requires seven day per week home care service. Medicaid and other 
insurers may pay a higher rate for home care visits made on recognized holidays if they are preauthorized. 
TW 
Back-up equipment 
Definition: A provider appends modifier TW to report all types of back up durable medical equipment, or DME. Back 
up DME, is a secondary piece of equipment that is identical or similar to DME that is already in use. It meets the same 
medical need for a patient but is provided as a precaution for an emergency situation in case the primary piece of 
equipment fails. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier TW for back up durable medical equipment. DME is medical equipment that 
helps a patient to manage his activities of daily living in an easier way or that provides therapeutic benefits to a patient.
A fe"." examples of ?ack up DME's are wheelchairs, oxygen and other respiratory apparatus such as a backup
ventilator, other patient monitoring devices, patient safety equipment, ambulatory infusion pumps, fracture and traction
apparatus, and artificial kidney machines. 
Tips: gayers may require providers to append modifier TW to identify back up DME when requesting prior authorization
for the item, as well as when submitting claims. 
Some payers may also request the TW modifier for Orthotic and Prosthetic Devices. 
Modifier TW is not payable by Medicare. 
582 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
U1 -U2 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
• 
U1 
Medicaid level of care 1, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier U1 to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 1, as defined 
• 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier U1 according to their states specific requirements. The code often defines a 
tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of service 
such as a healthcare home programs, comprehensive care, coordination and planning, and initial plan; or skilled 
nursing services A or B level of care. A provider may also use this code when he does not identify any behavioral health 
need during screening or evaluation of a patient. Identification of behavioral health need means that the provider, who 
is evaluating the patient, identifies a patient who is typically a child with a significant or potential behavioral health 
services need. 
Tips: The definition of modifier U1 may depend upon the procedure code the provider appends the modifier to. For 
example, in Minnesota the U1 modifier may define Care coordination, basic complexity level when a provider reports 
with Medical home program, comprehensive care coordination and planning codes S0280 or S0281, but it may mean 
substance abuse treatment for a special population or clients with children when the provider reports the modifier with 
H2035, Alcohol And/Or Other Drug Treatment Program, Per Hour. 
In compliance with Texas, or TX Medicaid, a provider appends modifier U1 to U3, with all delivery claims with codes, 
59409, Vaginal delivery only, with or without episiotomy and or forceps, 59612, Vaginal delivery only, after previous 
cesarean delivery with or without episiotomy and or forceps, 59514, Cesarean delivery only, and 59620, Cesarean 
delivery only, following attempted vaginal delivery after previous cesarean delivery. 
Providers in Minnesota follow healthcare homes payment methodology to determine whether a patient's condition 
meets the requirement for a major chronic condition. At this time, the tier reflects the number of major chronic condition 
groups the patient has and a provider uses a modifier to reflect the projected intensity of care coordination services the 
patient will require. A provider uses modifier U1 for patients who have one to three major chronic condition groups, to 
indicate the patient is in Tier one. 
U2 
Medicaid level of care 2, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier U2 to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 2, as defined 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier U2 according to their states specific requirements. The code often defines a 
tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of service 
such as a healthcare home programs, comprehensive care, coordination and planning, and initial plan; or skilled 
nursing services A or B level of care. A provider may also use this code when he identifies any behavioral health need 
during screening or evaluation of a patient. Identification of behavioral health need means that the provider, who is 
evaluating the patient, identifies a patient who is typically a child with a significant or potential behavioral health services 
need. 
Tips: In compliance with Texas, or TX Medicaid, a provider appends modifier U1 to U3, with all delivery claims with 
codes, 59409, Vaginal delivery only, with or without episiotomy and or forceps, 59612, Vaginal delivery only, after 
previous cesarean delivery with or without episiotomy and or forceps, 59514, Cesarean delivery only, and 59620, 
Cesarean delivery only, following attempted vaginal delivery after previous cesarean delivery. 
Providers in Minnesota follow healthcare homes payment methodology to determine whether a patient's condition 
meets the requirement for a major chronic condition. At this time, the tier reflects the number of major chronic condition 
groups the patient has and a provider uses a modifier to reflect the projected intensity of care coordination services the 
patient will require. A provider uses modifier U2 for patients who have seven to nine major chronic condition groups, to 
indicate the patient is in Tier three. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
583 
U3-U5 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
U3 
Medicaid level of care 3, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier U3 to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 3, as defined 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier U3 according to their states specific requirements. The code often defines a 
tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of service 
or situation such as a healthcare home programs, comprehensive care, coordination and planning, and initial plan; or 
skilled nursing services A or B level of care. A provider may use this code for a mental health services encounter when he 
performs a behavioral health screening or evaluation of a patient. Identification of behavioral health need means that the 
provider, who is evaluating the patient, identifies a patient who is typically a child with a significant or potential behavioral 
health services need. 
Tips: Professional claims for Medicare demonstration services may include optional supplemental factor modifier 
U3. Supplemental complexity modifiers means that the provider will be eligible to receive a 15 percent or 30 percent 
increase in his healthcare homes care coordination payment for certain more complex patients. 
To indicate complexity, providers in Minnesota may use modifier U3, Primary language non English. This means that 
the English language skills are not sufficient to discuss and create complicated care plans, complex care choices, and 
options. This may apply to the patient or to a caregiver of a dependent patient. This also includes those patients or 
caregivers who are hearing impaired and require a sign language interpreter or use an augmentative communication 
device. Providers must consider whether the language barrier is significant enough to prevent a discussion with a 
patient's care team for care coordination services and report this modifier. 
U4 
Medicaid level of care 4, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier U4 to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 4, as defined by each 
state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. A state may 
also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific requirements for 
use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier U4 according to their states specific requirements. A provider may use 
this code when he identifies any behavioral health need during screening or evaluation of a patient. Identification of 
behavioral health need means that the provider, who is evaluating the patient, identifies a patient who is a child with a 
significant or potential behavioral health services need. 
Tips: Professional claims for Medicare demonstration services may include optional supplemental factor modifier U4. 
Supplemental complexity modifiers mean that the provider will be eligible to receive a 15 percent or 30 percent increase 
in his healthcare homes care coordination payment for certain more complex patients. 
To indicate complexity, providers in Minnesota may use modifier U4 for severe and persistent mental illness. This 
means the patient has an active diagnosis of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depression, or borderline 
personality disorder as per Minnesota statute. This may apply to the patient or to a caregiver of a dependent patient. If 
a patient has either one of the supplemental complexity modifiers, the allowable charge for the tier payment at this time 
increases by 15 percent. If both complexity modifiers are present, the allowable charge for the tier payment increases 
by 30 percent. Providers follow the guidelines provided by the Minnesota healthcare homes payment methodology to 
determine whether a patient's situation meets the level of warranting a supplemental complexity factor. 
us 
Medicaid level of care 5, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier U5 to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 5, as defined by each 
state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. A state may 
also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific requirements for 
use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier U5 according to their states specific requirements. The code often defines 
a tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of 
service or situation such as a healthcare home programs, comprehensive care, coordination and planning, and initial 
plan, or an increased substance abuse treatment with medical services. A provider may use this code for a mental
health services encounter when he performs a behavioral health screening or evaluation of a patient. Identification of
behaviornl -lealth need means that the provider, who is evaluating the patient, identifies a patient who is typically a child
with a s1gn1f1cant or potential behavioral health services need. 
Tips: A provider uses U5 as a local modifier with codes for obstetrical and gynecological services in Illinois. The 
modifier flags the services as Direct Access services, or service available without a referral. 
For the Kansas Medical Assistance Program, or KMAP, a provider can append the U5 modifier to identify a Targeted
Case Management service when appropriate, typically in the case of the frail and elderly who require a higher level of
service. 
Modifier U5 is not payable by Medicare. 
584 
CPI" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
U6-U8 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
U6 
Medicaid level of care 6, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier U6 to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 6, as defined 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier U6 according to their states specific requirements. The code often defines a 
tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of service 
or situation such as a healthcare home programs, comprehensive care, coordination and planning, and initial plan; or 
for increased service such as an authorized podiatry encounter. A provider may use this code when he identifies any 
behavioral health need during screening or evaluation of a patient. Identification of behavioral health need means that 
the provider, who is evaluating the patient, identifies a patient who is a child with a significant or potential behavioral 
health services need. 
Tips: An Illinois provider may use U6 as a local modifier with codes for service provided within 60 days of hospital 
discharge such as a therapy visit within 60 days of hospital discharge. 
One use of the modifier for California Medicaid is to indicate EC pills, or emergency contraceptive pills. 
When filing Arkansas Medicaid family planning claims for provider services in an outpatient clinic, the modifier U6, 
identifies a basic family planning visit, 
Modifier U6 is not payable by Medicare. 
U7 
Medicaid level of care 7, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier U7 to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 7, as defined 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier U7 according to their states specific requirements. The code often defines a 
tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of service 
or situation such as a healthcare home programs, comprehensive care, coordination and planning, and initial plan; or 
an increased service such as an All-inclusive Clinic Visit. A provider may use this code for a mental health services 
encounter when he performs a behavioral health screening or evaluation of a patient. Identification of behavioral health 
need means that the provider, who is evaluating the patient, identifies a patient who is typically a child with a significant 
or potential behavioral health services need. 
Tips: Illinois uses U7 as a local modifier to flag the services for pregnancy resulting from incest. 
California Medicaid, applies the U7 modifier to denote services rendered by a Physician Assistant, PA. 
A provider appends the U7 modifier in Indiana for all waiver services. 
Modifier U7 is not payable by Medicare. 
us 
Medicaid level of care 8, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier U8 to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 8, as defined 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier U8 according to their states specific requirements. The code often defines a 
tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of service 
or situation such as a healthcare home programs, comprehensive care, coordination and planning, and initial plan; or 
an all inclusive service. A provider may use this code when he identifies any behavioral health need during screening or 
evaluation of a patient. Identification of behavioral health need means that the provider, who is evaluating the patient, 
identifies a patient who is a child with a significant or potential behavioral health services need. 
Tips: Illinois uses U8 as a local modifier with codes for pregnancy threatening the mother's life; where New York uses 
the modifier to flag a delivery prior to 39 weeks of gestation. 
Modifier U8 is not payable by Medicare. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
585 
U9-UB 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
U9 
Medicaid level of care 9, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier U9 to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 9, as defined 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier U9 according to their states specific requirements. The code often defines a 
tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of service 
or situation such as a healthcare home programs, comprehensive care, coordination and planning, and initial plan; or 
for such services as when he evaluates, diagnoses, and treats patients with vision problems, for example. 
Tips: Although Medicaid pays for routine vision care services, such as eyeglasses and routine eye care exams, 
Medicare generally does not. Therefore, Medicaid requires providers to apply the Medicaid standard fee schedule 
amounts when submitting claims for routine vision care services to recipients who are enrolled in both Medicaid and 
Medicare. 
UA 
Medicaid level of care 10, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UA to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 10, as defined 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier UA according to their states specific requirements. The code often defines a 
tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of service 
or situation such to designate that the patient was admitted to the hospital or transferred to another hospital from the 
ED. 
Tips: Modifier UA is a Medicaid only modifier. Claims using this modifier submitted for members of plans other than 
Medicaid will be denied. 
Some providers use the UA modifier for surgical or nongeneral anesthesia related supplies and drugs, including 
surgical trays and plaster casting supplies, provided in conjunction with a surgical procedure code. However, when 
a provider reports this modifier with heroin detoxification code, H0014, Alcohol and/or drug services; ambulatory 
detoxification, the UA modifier indicates the outpatient heroin detoxification services per visit, days 1 - 7; something 
completely different. 
UB 
Medicaid level of care 11, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UB to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 11, as defined 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier UB according to their state specific requirements. The code often defines 
a tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of 
service or situation such as identifying that a transport is of a critically ill or injured patient over 24 months of age. The 
UB modifier can also indicate that the age of the patient is less than 21 or greater than 59, as for some Vision care 
services. 
Tips: Ohio for example uses the UB modifier to describe a Comprehensive ophthalmologic service for an individual 
younger than 21 or older than 59. In this situation the modifier is applicable only to CPT® procedure codes 92004,
Ophthalmological services: medical examination and evaluation with initiation of diagnostic and treatment program;
comprehensive, new patient, one or more visits, and 92014, Ophthalmological services: medical examination and
evaluation, with initiation or continuation of diagnostic and treatment program; comprehensive, established patient, one 
or more visits. 
In Clifornia, a provider uses this code to identify surgical or general anesthesia related supplies and drugs, including
surgical trays and plaster casting supplies, provided in conjunction with a surgical procedure code. However, when 
a proi_der_reports this modifier_wit_h heroin detoxification code, H0014, Alcohol and/or drug services; ambulatory
detox1f1cat1on, the UB modifier indicates outpatient heroin detoxification services per visit, days 8 - 21.
In Georgia, modifier UB indicates a delivery is a medically necessary delivery prior to 39 weeks of gestation.
Wisconsin providers append the UB edifier to some Mental Health, Telemedical and Health and Behavior procedure
codes to 1nd1cate an Advanced Practice Nurse provides the service. 
586 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
UC-UG 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
UC 
Medicaid level of care 12, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UC to report the services related to the Medicaid level of care 12, as defined 
by each state. The level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. 
A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier UC according to their state specific requirements. The code often defines 
a tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of 
service or situation such as identifying a Clinical Nurse Specialist performs the service or to ensure payment goes to 
a Community Mental Health Services Program Provider, or CMHSP, and not to the rendering provider as this modifier 
indicates the CMHSP is billing Medicaid fee for service for a Community Based Services Waiver Program, or CWP 
beneficiary. 
Tips: Medicaid rules governing professional services within the Ohio Administrative Code, or OAC, indicate that one 
may report modifier UC along with 26 if the professional component for radiology procedure codes is provided by an 
advanced practice nurse, or APN, operating within the APN's scope of practice. 
UD 
Medicaid level of care 13, as defined by each state 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UD to report the services related to a Medicaid level of care 13, as defined 
by each state. A state may also use this code to have the provider identify a type of service or patient situation. The 
level of care may relate to the amount of assistance a patient requires, or the complexity of care. See state specific 
requirements for use of this code. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier UD according to their state specific requirements. The code often defines a 
tiered service based upon complexity of care but a provider may need to apply the modifier to identify a type of service 
or situation such as to denote services provided or drugs purchased under a particular program or when billing for an 
attending ED provider evaluation and management, or E and M service, to designate that the patient was discharged 
from the hospital and not admitted. 
Tips: Modifier UD is a Medicaid only modifier. Claims using this modifier submitted for members of plans other than 
Medicaid will be denied. 
UE 
Used durable medical equipment 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UE to identify an item as used durable medical equipment, or DME, that a 
patient purchases. DME is medical equipment that helps a patient to manage his activities of daily living in an easier 
way or that provides therapeutic benefits to a patient. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier UE to codes for used DME. DME helps the patient to manage his activities 
of daily living in an easier way. The codes this modifier is typically applicable to are defined as Inexpensive or Routinely 
Purchased Items, or IRP Items, Capped Rental Items, Items Requiring Frequent and Substantial Servicing, or Oxygen 
Equipment. A few examples of DME's are crutches, wheelchairs, commodes, canes, walkers, hospital beds, patient 
safety equipment, and fracture and traction apparatus. 
Tips: Using modifier UE indicates that the provider is furnishing the patient with purchased used durable medical 
equipment. 
A provider uses modifier RR, Rented item, if the item is being rented by the patient and modifier NU, New purchased 
item, if the item is purchased new by the patient. 
UF 
Services provided in the morning 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UF to report that the services that the patient receives from the provider are 
occurring the morning. 
Explanation: Append modifier UF to identify that the provider sees the patient in the morning. This modifier typically 
defines services the patient receives between 6 a.m. to 11 :59 a.m. and can include such services as provider 
professional services as well as home visits for mechanical ventilation care; nursing care, assessment or evaluation. 
Tips: Modifier UF is not payable by Medicare. 
UG 
Services provided in the afternoon 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UG to report that the services that the patient receives from the provider occur 
in the afternoon. 
Explanation: Append modifier UG to cover services that the patient receives by the provider in the afternoon. This
modifier typically defines services the patient receives between 12 p.m. to 5:59 p.m. and can include such services
as provider professional services as well as home visits for mechanical ventilation care; nursing care, assessment or
evaluation. 
Tips: Modifier UG is not payable by Medicare. 
cp-,. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
587 
UH-UP 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
UH 
Services provided in the evening 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UH to report that the services that the patient receives from the provider occur 
in the evening. 
Explanation: Append modifier UH to identify that the provider sees the patient in the evening. This modifier typically 
defines services the patient receives between 6 p.m. to 11 :59 p.m. and can include such services as provider 
professional services as well as home visits for mechanical ventilation care; nursing care, assessment or evaluation. 
Tips: Modifier UH is not payable by Medicare. 
UJ 
Services provided at night 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UJ to report that the services that the patient receives from the provider occur 
at night. 
Explanation: Append modifier UJ to cover services that the patient receives by the provider at night. This modifier 
typically defines services the patient receives between 12 a.m. to 5:59 a.m. and can include such services as provider 
professional services as well as home visits for mechanical ventilation care; nursing care, assessment or evaluation. 
Tips: Modifier UJ is not payable by Medicare. 
UK 
Services provided on behalf of the client to someone other than the client (collateral relationship) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UK to report services that the provider performs for someone other than the 
client, on behalf of the client. 
Explanation: Append modifier UK to cover the services that the provider renders to someone other than the client, on 
behalf of the client. A provider may need to report this modifier for mental health services such as, a family or couple 
visit without the client present; or when using H0046, Mental health services, not otherwise specified. This code may 
also be necessary if submitting newborn care services under the mother's ID information. 
Tips: Modifier UK is not payable by Medicare. 
UN 
Two patients served 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UN when two patients receive services at the same location such as portable 
X-ray services for two Medicare patients at the same location. The provider serves the patients during a single trip that
the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location.
Explanation: A provider reports this modifier when he provides services to patients at the same location. A provider 
may for example append the modifier with HCPCS code R0075, Transportation of portable X-ray equipment and 
personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, more than one patient seen, when submitting 
Medicare portable X-rays. 
When you report this code combination, R0075 with modifier UN, the total Medicare payment for a single patient 
service covers both patients. 
Tips: If the provider serves only one patient in the example given, he reports a different HCPCS code R0070, 
Transportation of portable X-ray equipment and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, one 
patient seen, and no modifier, since the descriptor for this code states that the service is for one patient seen. 
Medicare allows a single transportation payment for each trip the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location. 
UP 
Three patients served 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UP when three patients receive services at the same location such as for 
portable X-ray services for three Medicare patients at the same location. The provider serves the patients during a 
single trip that the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location. 
Explanation: A provider reports this modifier when he provides services to three patients at the same location. A 
provider may for example append the modifier with HCPCS code R0075, Transportation of portable X-ray equipment
and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, more than one patient seen, when submitting
Medicare portable X-rays. 
Tips: If the provider serves only one patient, he reports a different HCPCS code R0070, Transportation of portable 
X-ray equipment and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, one patient seen, and no
modifier, since the descriptor for this code states that the service is for one patient seen.
Medicare allows a single transportation payment for each trip the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location. 
588 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
UQ-V2 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
UQ 
Four patients served 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UQ when four patients receive services at the same location such as for 
portable X-ray services for four Medicare patients at the same location. The provider serves the patients during a single 
trip that the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location. 
Explanation: A provider reports this modifier when he provides services to four patients at the same location. A 
provider may for example append the modifier with HCPCS code R0075, Transportation of portable X-ray equipment 
and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, more than one patient seen, when submitting
Medicare portable X-rays. 
Tips: If the provider serves only one patient, he reports a different HCPCS code R0070, Transportation of portable 
X-ray equipment and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, one patient seen, and no 
modifier, since the descriptor for this code states that the service is for one patient seen.
Medicare allows a single transportation payment for each trip the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location. 
UR 
Five patients served 
Definition: A provider appends modifier UR when five patients receive services at the same location such as for 
portable X-ray services for five Medicare patients at the same location. The provider serves the patients during a single 
trip that the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location. 
Explanation: A provider reports this modifier when he provides services to five patients at the same location. A 
provider may for example append the modifier with HCPCS code R0075, Transportation of portable X-ray equipment 
and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, more than one patient seen, when submitting 
Medicare portable X-rays. 
Tips: If the provider serves only one patient, he reports a different HCPCS code R0070, Transportation of portable 
X-ray equipment and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, one patient seen, and no
modifier, since the descriptor for this code states that the service is for one patient seen.
Medicare allows a single transportation payment for each trip the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location. 
us 
Six or more patients served 
Definition: A provider appends modifier US when six patients receive services at the same location such as for 
portable X-ray services for six Medicare patients at the same location. The provider serves the patients during a single 
trip that the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location. 
Explanation: A provider reports this modifier when he provides services to six patients at the same location. A 
provider may for example append the modifier with HCPCS code R0075, Transportation of portable X-ray equipment 
and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, more than one patient seen, when submitting 
Medicare portable X-rays. 
Tips: If the provider serves only one patient, he reports a different HCPCS code R0070, Transportation of portable 
X-ray equipment and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, one patient seen, and no
modifier, since the descriptor for this code states that the service is for one patient seen.
Medicare allows a single transportation payment for each trip the portable X-ray supplier makes to a particular location.
V1 
Demonstration modifier 1 
Definition: Append modifier V1 to indicate that the service/procedure is part of a demonstration. 
Explanation: CMS conducts and sponsors demonstration projects to test and measure the effect of potential program 
changes. The demonstrations study the likely impact of new methods of service delivery, coverage of new types of 
service, and new payment approaches on beneficiaries, providers, health plans, states, and the Medicare Trust Funds. 
Append the appropriate modifier when the services involve demonstration of a procedure/service to allow accurate 
identification and documentation for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in the demonstration. 
Tips: This modifier is part of a series of similar modifiers that indicates demonstration services/procedures. It is 
advisable to check payer guidelines for use of any of these modifiers. 
V2 
Demonstration modifier 2 
Definition: Append modifier V2 to indicate that the service/procedure is part of a demonstration. 
Explanation: CMS conducts and sponsors demonstration projects to test and measure the effect of potential program 
changes. The demonstrations study the likely impact of new methods of service delivery, coverage of new types of 
service, and new payment approaches on beneficiaries, providers, health plans, states, and the Medicare Trust Funds. 
Append the appropriate modifier when the services involve demonstration of a procedure/service to allow accurate 
identification and documentation for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in the demonstration. 
Tips: This modifier is part of a series of similar modifiers that indicates demonstration services/procedures. It is 
advisable to check payer guidelines for use of any of these modifiers. 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
589 
V3-V6 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
V3 
Demonstration modifier 3 
Definition: Append modifier V3 to indicate that the service/procedure is part of a demonstration. 
Explanation: CMS conducts and sponsors demonstration projects to test and measure the effect of potential program 
changes. The demonstrations study the likely impact of new methods of service delivery, coverage of new types of 
service, and new payment approaches on beneficiaries, providers, health plans, states, and the Medicare Trust Funds. 
Append the appropriate modifier when the services involve demonstration of a procedure/service to allow accurate 
identification and documentation for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in the demonstration. 
Tips: This modifier is part of a series of similar modifiers that indicates demonstration services/procedures. It is 
advisable to check payer guidelines for use of any of these modifiers. 
V4 
Demonstration modifier 4 
Definition: Append modifier V4 to indicate that the service/procedure is part of a demonstration. 
Explanation: CMS conducts and sponsors demonstration projects to test and measure the effect of potential program 
changes. The demonstrations study the likely impact of new methods of service delivery, coverage of new types of 
service, and new payment approaches on beneficiaries, providers, health plans, states, and the Medicare Trust Funds. 
Append the appropriate modifier when the services involve demonstration of a procedure/service to allow accurate 
identification and documentation for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in the demonstration. 
Tips: This modifier is part of a series of similar modifiers that indicates demonstration services/procedures. It is 
advisable to check payer guidelines for use of any of these modifiers. 
vs 
Vascular catheter (alone or with any other vascular access) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier V5 to report a vascular catheter he uses to perform hemodialysis for a patient 
such as one with end stage renal disease, or ESRD. The provider may use the catheter alone or with another vascular 
access. 
Explanation: A provider appends this modifier to report the type of vascular access he uses for the delivery of 
hemodialysis to an ESRD patient. The provider uses the V5 modifier when he uses a vascular catheter for the ESRD 
patient's hemodialysis service and he uses this access with or without another vascular access to perform the service. 
ESRD defines the final stage of kidney failure where a patient is not able to live without dialysis or a transplant because 
of the complete or nearly complete irreversible loss of renal function. ESRD is also referred to as end stage kidney 
disease, end stage kidney failure, and end stage renal failure. 
Hemodialysis is a blood filtration procedure for a patient with this advanced, permanent kidney failure. During typical 
hemodialysis, a dialysis machine removes harmful wastes, salts, and fluid from the blood that would normally be 
eliminated in the urine. A provider uses a vascular catheter, or a flexible tube that he inserts into a blood vessel through 
which he can remove and return blood during hemodialysis, or perform other services such as pass instruments, draw 
blood, or instill fluids. 
Tips: ESRD claims for hemodialysis must indicate the type of vascular access the provider uses for the delivery of the 
hemodialysis at the last hemodialysis session of the month. 
V6 
Arteriovenous graft (or other vascular access not including a vascular catheter) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier V6 to report an arteriovenous graft, or other vascular access he uses to 
perform hemodialysis for a patient such as one with end stage renal disease, or ESRD. The provider may use the graft 
alone or with another vascular access but he does not use a vascular catheter for this service. 
Explanation: A provider appends this modifier to report the type of vascular access he uses for the delivery of 
hemodialysis to a patient such as an ESRD patient. The provider uses the V6 modifier when he uses an arteriovenous 
graft, or other vascular access but not a vascular catheter to perform an ESRD patient's hemodialysis service. The 
provider uses an arteriovenous graft, for the hemodialysis service by surgically connecting a vein to an artery using 
a soft plastic tube, or an organic material from a person or animal. The provider then uses this access to remove and 
return blood during the hemodialysis service. 
ESRD defines the final stage of kidney failure where a patient is not able to live without dialysis or a transplant because 
o[ the complete or nearly complete irreversible loss of renal function. ESRD is also referred to as end stage kidney
disease, end stage kidney failure, and end stage renal failure.
Hemod_ialysis is a_ blood filtration procedure for a patient with this advanced, permanent kidney failure. During typical 
hemod1alys1s, a d1alys1s machine removes harmful wastes, salts, and fluid from the blood that would normally be
eliminated in the urine. 
Tips: ESR\ claims for hemodialysis with must indicate the type of vascular access the provider uses for the delivery of
the hemod1alys1s at the last hemodialysis session of the month. 
590 
CPI-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
V7-X2 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
V7 
Arteriovenous fistula only (in use with two needles) 
Definition: A provider appends modifier V7 to represent an arteriovenous fistula, in use with two needles to perform 
hemodialysis for a patient such as one with end stage renal disease, or ESRD. The provider does not use a vascular 
catheter, arteriovenous graft, or other vascular access when he reports this service. 
Explanation: A provider appends this modifier to report the type of vascular access he uses for the delivery of 
hemodialysis to a patient such as an ESRD patient. A provider appends modifier V7 to represent an arteriovenous 
fistula, in use with two needles. The provider then uses this access to remove and return blood during the hemodialysis 
service. 
ESRD defines the final stage of kidney failure where a patient is not able to live without dialysis or a transplant because 
of the complete or nearly complete irreversible loss of renal function. ESRD is also referred to as end stage kidney 
disease, end stage kidney failure, and end stage renal failure. 
Hemodialysis is a blood filtration procedure for a patient with this advanced, permanent kidney failure. During typical 
hemodialysis, a dialysis machine removes harmful wastes, salts, and fluid from the blood that would normally be 
eliminated in the urine. An arteriovenous fistula is a tract or abnormal passageway that is not supposed to be there that 
connects a coronary artery to the pulmonary venous circulation. 
Tips: ESRD claims for hemodialysis must indicate the type of vascular access the provider uses for the delivery of the 
hemodialysis at the last hemodialysis session of the month. 
VM 
Medicare diabetes prevention program (MDPP) virtual make-up session 
Definition: Append modifier VM to a code when a provider delivers an in-person virtual make-up session to a 
beneficiary who missed a group-based, classroom-style, core Medicare diabetes prevention program (MDPP) session. 
Explanation: Modifier VM indicates that the provider electronically delivered a make-up session as part of an 
established MDPP curriculum to a patient who missed a face-to-face group class. 
Tips: The MDPP is a six-month CDC-approved curriculum consisting of a minimum of 16 intensive "core" educational 
sessions delivered to a group of patients with prediabetes in a classroom-style setting aimed at preventing progression 
to type 2 diabetes mellitus. The curriculum provides training in long-term dietary change, increased physical activity, 
and behavior modification strategies for weight control. Less intensive follow-up monthly sessions help ensure that the 
participants maintain healthy behaviors. The primary goal of the expanded model is at least 5 percent average weight 
loss by participants. 
VP 
Aphakic patient 
Definition: A provider appends modifier VP to represent an aphakic patient, or a patient without a lens in the eye. 
Explanation: A provider appends modifier VP to represent an aphakic patient. An aphakic patient is one who has lost 
the lens of his eye, due to reasons such as surgical removal, an intervening ulcer, or an anomaly from birth. This may 
lead to problems related to the eye, such as, far sightedness and a loss of accommodation, or adjustment of the eye to 
view different objects. There may be complications which arise due to aphakia. These may include detachment of the 
retina and glaucoma. 
Tips: Modifier VP is informational only and you may report it with different types of service such as medical care, 
surgery, consultation, diagnostic radiology, anesthesia, assistant at surgery, other medical items or services, ambulatory 
surgical Centers, or facility usage for surgical services. 
If you report modifier VP with codes for any other types of service, the payer may return the claim as unprocessable. 
The provider may need to resubmit as a new claim without the modifier. 
X1 
Continuous/broad services 
Definition: Append modifier X1 to a code for continuing, broad or comprehensive care services, typically for a patient 
with multiple chronic conditions, with no anticipated endpoint, provided by primary care and specialty providers. 
Explanation: Modifier X1 defines a patient relationship category in which either a primary care physician or specialist, 
either directly or coordinating care by others, provide continuous broad or comprehensive care, potentially dealing with 
multiple chronic health issues, and the patient's health problems are such that no endpoint (cure or other endpoint) is 
anticipated. 
Tips: Patient relationship categories facilitate the attribution of patients and care episodes to clinicians who serve 
patients in different roles as part of the assessment of the cost of care. 
X2 
Continuous/focused services 
Definition: Append modifier X2 to a code for ongoing management of a chronic disease with no anticipated endpoint, 
typically provided by a specialist. 
Explanation: Modifier X2 defines a patient relationship category in which typically a specialist provides ongoing care 
and management for a specific chronic health issue, such as rheumatoid arthritis, heart disease, or diabetes, and no 
endpoint (cure or other endpoint) is anticipated. 
Tips: Patient relationship categories facilitate the attribution of patients and care episodes to clinicians who serve 
patients in different roles as part of the assessment of the cost of care. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
591 
X3-XP 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
X3 
Episodic/broad services 
Definition: Append modifier X3 to a code for services rendered by a provider with broad responsibility (i.e., oversight/
management) for comprehensive and general care limited to a specific period or circumstance, such as a hospital
admission. 
Explanation: Modifier X3 defines a patient relationship category in which a provider, such as a hospitalist, renders 
general and comprehensive care and management to a patient for a limited period of time, such as a hospitalization. 
Tips: Patient relationship categories facilitate the attribution of patients and care episodes to clinicians who serve 
patients in different roles as part of the assessment of the cost of care. 
X4 
Episodic/focused services 
Definition: Append modifier X4 to a code for focused care services, such as surgical intervention or radiotherapy, for 
acute or chronic conditions rendered by a provider for a limited or defined period of time. 
Explanation: Modifier X4 defines a patient relationship category in which a provider, such as a surgeon or radiation 
oncologist, renders care and management or intervention to a patient for a specific chronic or acute condition over a 
defined or limited period of time. 
Tips: Patient relationship categories facilitate the attribution of patients and care episodes to clinicians who serve 
patients in different roles as part of the assessment of the cost of care. 
XS 
Diagnostic services requested by another clinician 
Definition: Append modifier X5 to a code for primarily diagnostic services, such as interpreting an imaging study, 
rendered by a provider only as ordered by another clinician. 
Explanation: Modifier X5 indicates that a provider renders a service, primarily diagnostic, to a patient only at the 
request or order of another provider. The service could be something like interpretation of an imaging study, EKG, or 
laboratory test. The services may also be subsequent or related services as requested or ordered by another provider. 
Tips: This patient relationship category is reported for patient relationships that may not be adequately captured by 
modifiers X1-X4. 
Patient relationship categories facilitate the attribution of patients and care episodes to clinicians who serve patients in 
different roles as part of the assessment of the cost of care. 
XE 
Separate encounter, a service that is distinct because it occurred during a separate encounter 
Definition: Append modifier XE to services that the provider performs for a patient at separate encounters on the same 
date of service. 
Explanation: A provider appends this modifier when the provider performs services on a patient at separate patient 
encounters that occur on the same date of service. 
Modifier XE defines a subset of the modifier 59, Distinct Procedural Service. CPT® instructions state that a provider 
should not use modifier 59 when a more descriptive modifier is available, such as modifier XE, for billing certain codes 
at high risk for incorrect billing. 
For example, a provider may identify a particular code pair as payable only with modifier XE but not modifier 59. 
Modifier XE is a more selective version of modifier 59 so it would be incorrect to include both modifiers on the same 
line. The combination of an alternative specific modifier with a general less specific modifier creates additional 
evaluation for both reporting and editing. Modifier XE is a valid modifier even before national edits are in place, so 
contractors are not prohibited from requiring the use of this selective modifier as an alternative to the general modifier 
59 when necessary by local program integrity and compliance needs. 
Tips: Contractors recognize modifier XE as a separate modifier and the system allows a provider to report multiple 
lines with modifier 59 and the XE modifier. However, the system aggregates lines with the XE modifier along with lines 
containing modifier 59, whenever it collects the modifier 59 lines. 
XP 
Separate practitioner, a service that is distinct because it was performed by a different practitioner 
Definition: Append modifier XP to identify a service that a different provider performs on the patient. 
Explanation: A provider appends this modifier to identify a distinct service that a patient receives from a different 
provider who performs the service on the patient. 
Modifier XP defines a subset of the modifier 59, Distinct Procedural Service. CPT® instructions state that a provider 
should not use modifier 59 when a more descriptive modifier is available, such as modifier XP, for billing certain codes 
at high risk for incorrect billing. Modifier XP is a more selective version of modifier 59 so it would be incorrect to include 
both modifiers on the same line. The combination of an alternative specific modifier with a general less specific modifier 
creates additional evaluation for both reporting and editing. Modifier XP is a valid modifier even before national edits 
are in place, so contractors are not prohibited from requiring the use of these selective modifiers an alternative to the 
general modifier 59 when necessary by local program integrity and compliance needs. 
Tips: Contractors recognize modifier XP as a separate modifier and the system allows a provider to report multiple lines
with modifier 59 and XP modifier. However, the system aggregates lines with the XP modifier along with lines containing
modifier 59 whenever it collects modifier 59 lines. 
592 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix B HCPCS Level II Modifiers, Lay Descriptions, and Tips 
XS-XU 
Mod 
Modifier Description, Definition, Explanation, and Tips 
XS 
Separate structure, a service that is distinct because it was performed on a separate organ/structure 
Definition: Append modifier XS to a service that the provider performs for a patient on a separate organ or structure. 
• 
Explanation: A provider appends this modifier to identify a distinct service when the provider performs services on a 
patient on different organs or structures. 
Modifier XS defines a subset of the modifier 59, Distinct Procedural Service. CPT® instructions state that a provider 
should not use modifier 59 when a more descriptive modifier is available, such as modifier XS, for billing certain codes 
at high risk for incorrect billing. Modifier XS is a more selective version of modifier 59 so it would be incorrect to include 
both modifiers on the same line. The combination of an alternative specific modifier with a general less specific modifier 
creates additional evaluation for both reporting and editing. Modifier XS is a valid modifier even before national edits 
are in place, so contractors are not prohibited from requiring the use of this selective modifier as an alternative to the 
general modifier 59 when necessary by local program integrity and compliance needs. 
Tips: Contractors recognize modifier XS as a separate modifier and the system allows a provider to report multiple 
lines with modifier 59 and XS modifier. However, the system aggregates lines with the XS modifier along with lines 
containing modifier 59 whenever it collects the modifier 59 lines. 
XU 
Unusual non-overlapping service, the use of a service that is distinct because it does not overlap usual 
components of the main service 
Definition: Append modifier XU to a service that is distinct because it does not overlap with the usual components of 
the main service. 
Explanation: A provider appends this modifier to identify the service as a distinct service, as the service the provider 
performs does not overlap with the unusual components of the main, or primary, service he renders to a patient. 
Modifier XU defines a subset of the modifier 59, Distinct Procedural Service. CPT® instructions state that a provider 
should not use modifier 59 when a more descriptive modifier is available, such as modifier XU, for billing certain codes 
at high risk for incorrect billing. Modifier XU is a more selective version of modifier 59 so it would be incorrect to include 
both modifiers on the same line. The combination of an alternative specific modifier with a general less specific modifier 
creates additional evaluation for both reporting and editing. Modifier XU is a valid modifier even before national edits 
are in place, so contractors are not prohibited from requiring the use of this selective modifier as an alternative to the 
general modifier 59 when necessary by local program integrity and compliance needs. 
Tips: Contractors recognize modifier XU as a separate modifier and the system allows a provider to report multiple 
lines with modifier 59 and XU modifier. However, the system aggregates lines with the XU modifier along with lines 
containing modifier 59 whenever it collects modifier 59 lines. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
593 
This page intentionally left blank 
Appendix( 
List of Abbreviations 
Abbreviation 
Description 
Abbreviation 
Description 
I 
or 
CMV 
Cytomegalovirus 
< 
less than 
Cone 
concentrate( d) 
<= 
less than equal to 
Cont 
continuous 
> 
greater than 
CP 
clinical psychologist 
>= 
greater than equal to 
CPAP 
continuous positive airway pressure 
AAA 
abdominal aortic aneurysm 
CPT® 
Current Procedural Terminology 
AC 
alternating current 
CRF 
chronic renal failure 
ACE 
Angiotensin converting enzyme 
CRNA 
certified registered nurse anesthetist 
AFO 
ankle-foot orthosis 
CROS 
contralateral routing of signals 
AICC 
anti-inhibitor coagulant complex 
csw 
clinical social worker 
AK 
above the knee 
CT 
computed tomography 
AKA 
above knee amputation 
CTLSO 
cervical-thoracic-lumbar-sacral orthosis 
ALS 
advanced life support 
cu 
cubic centimeter 
AMP 
ampule 
DC 
direct current 
ARB 
Angiotensin receptor blocker 
ART 
arterial 
ASC 
ambulatory surgery center 
ATT 
attached 
A-V
arteriovenous 
DI 
diabetes insipidus 
DU 
donor leukocyte infusion 
DME 
durable medical equipment 
DME MAC 
durable medical equipment Medicare 
administrative contractor 
AVF 
arteriovenous fistula 
DMEPOS 
durable medical equipment; prosthetic, 
BICROS 
bilateral routing of signals 
orthotics, and other supplies 
BK 
below the knee 
DMERC 
durable medical equipment regional 
BKA 
below knee amputation 
carrier 
BLS 
basic life support 
DR 
diagnostic radiology 
BMI 
body mass index 
Dx 
diagnosis 
BP 
blood pressure 
DXA 
dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry 
BTE 
behind the ear (hearing aid) 
e.g. 
for example 
CAD 
coronary artery disease 
Ea 
each 
CAPD 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis 
ECF 
extended care facility 
Carb 
carbohydrate 
EEG 
electroencephalogram 
CBC 
complete blood count 
EKG 
electrocardiogram 
cc 
cubic centimeter 
EMG 
electromyography 
CCPD 
continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis 
EO 
elbow orthosis 
CGH 
comparative genomic hybridization 
EP 
electrophysiologic 
CHF 
congestive heart failure 
EPO 
epoetin alfa 
CIC 
completely in the canal (hearing aid) 
CIM 
Coverage Issue Manual 
CISD 
critical incident stress debriefing 
cm 
centimeter 
EPSDT 
early periodic screening, diagnosis and 
treatment 
ESRD 
end-stage renal disease 
Ex 
extended 
CMN 
certificate of medical necessity 
EXPER 
experimental 
CMS 
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Ext 
external 
Services 
FDA 
Food and Drug Administration 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
595 
FOG-PET - NOS 
Appendix C List of Abbreviations 
Abbreviation 
Description 
Abbreviation 
Description 
FDG-PET 
positron emission with tomography with 
ITE 
in the ear (hearing aid} 
18 fluorodeoxyglucose 
IU 
international units 
Fem 
female 
IV 
intravenous 
FO 
finger orthosis 
IVF 
in vitro fertilization 
FPD 
fixed partial denture 
IVP 
Intrauterine pregnancy 
Fr 
trench 
KAFO 
knee-ankle-foot orthosis 
ft 
foot 
KO 
knee orthosis 
G-CSF
filgrastim (granulocyte colony-
KOH 
potassium hydroxide 
stimulating factor) 
L 
left 
gm or g 
gram 
LASIK 
laser in situ keratomileusis 
H2O 
water 
LAUP 
laser assisted uvulopalatoplasty 
HCL 
hydrochloric acid 
lbs 
pounds 
HCPCS 
Healthcare Common Procedural Coding 
System 
HCT 
hematocrit 
LDL 
low density lipoprotein 
LDS 
lipodystrophy syndrome 
HCV 
Hepatitis C virus 
HDL-C 
high density lipoprotein- cholesterol 
HF 
heart failure 
Lo 
low 
LOPS 
loss of protective sensation 
LPM 
liters per minute 
HFO 
hand-finger orthosis 
LPN/LVN 
Licensed Practical Nurse/licensed 
Vocational Nurse 
HHA 
home health agency 
LSO 
lumbar-sacral orthosis 
HI 
high 
LTC 
long term care facility 
HI-LO 
high-low 
LVEF 
left ventricular ejection fraction 
HIT 
home infusion therapy 
MAC 
Medicare administrative contractor 
HKAFO 
hip-knee-ankle foot orthosis 
mcg 
microgram 
HLA 
human leukocyte antigen 
mCi 
millicurie 
HMES 
heat and moisture exchange system 
MCM 
Medicare Carriers Manual 
HNPCC 
hereditary non-polyposis colorectal 
MCP 
metacarpophalangeal joint 
cancer 
HO 
hip orthosis 
HPSA 
health professional shortage area 
mEq 
milliequivalent 
MESA 
microsurgical epididymal sperm 
aspiration 
HST 
home sleep test 
mg 
milligram 
1-131
Iodine 131 
mgs 
milligrams 
IA 
intra- arterial administration 
MHT 
megahertz 
lbs 
pounds 
ml 
milliliter 
ICF 
intermediate care facility 
mm 
millimeter 
ICU 
intensive care unit 
mmHg 
millimeters of Mercury 
IM 
intramuscular 
mp 
metacarpophalangeal 
in 
inch 
MRA 
magnetic resonance angiography 
INF 
infusion 
MRI 
magnetic resonance imaging 
INH 
inhalation solution 
NA 
sodium 
INJ 
injection 
NCI 
National Cancer Institute 
IOL 
intraocular lens 
NEC 
not elsewhere classified 
ip 
interphalangeal 
NG 
nasogastric 
IPD 
intermittent peritoneal dialysis 
NH 
nursing home 
IPPB 
intermittent positive pressure breathing 
NMES 
neuromuscular electrical stimulation 
IT 
intrathecal administration 
NOC 
not otherwise classified 
ITC 
in the canal (hearing aid} 
NOS 
not otherwise specified 
596 
Appendix C List of Abbreviations 
NSR-Xe 
Abbreviation 
Description 
Abbreviation 
Description 
NSR 
normal sinus rhythm 
SNCT 
sensory nerve conduction test 
02 
oxygen 
SNF 
skilled nursing facility 
OBRA 
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act 
so 
sacroiliac orthosis 
OMT 
osteopathic manipulation therapy 
so 
shoulder orthosis 
OPPS 
outpatient prospective payment system 
Sol 
solution 
ORAL 
oral administration 
SQ 
square 
OSA 
obstructive sleep apnea 
SR 
screen 
Ost 
ostomy 
SR 
sustained release 
0TH 
other routes of administration 
ST 
standard 
oz 
ounce 
Syr 
syrup 
PA 
physician's assistant 
TABS 
tablets 
PAR 
parenteral 
Tc 
Technetium 
PCA 
patient controlled analgesia 
Tc99m 
Technetium isotope 
PCH 
pouch 
TD 
diphtheria toxoids vaccine 
PEN 
parenteral and enteral nutrition 
TDAP 
diphtheria toxoids and acellular 
PENS 
percutaneous electrical nerve 
pertussis vaccine 
stimulation 
TEE 
transesophageal echocardiography 
PET 
positron emission tomography 
TENS 
transcutaneous electrical nerve 
PHP 
pre-paid health plan 
stimulator 
PHP 
physician hospital plan 
THKAO 
thoracic-hip-knee-ankle orthosis 
Pl 
paramedic intercept 
TLSO 
thoracic-lumbar -sacral-orthosis 
PICC 
peripherally inserted central venous 
TM 
temporomandibular 
catheter 
TMJ 
temporomandibular joint 
PKR 
photorefractive keratotomy 
TPN 
total parenteral nutrition 
PNB 
peripheral nerve block 
u 
unit 
Pow 
powder 
uCi 
microcurie 
PPPS 
personalized prevention plan of service 
VAR 
various routes of administration 
PQRS 
physician quality reporting system 
w 
with 
PRK 
photoreactive keratectomy 
w/ 
with 
PRO 
peer review organization 
w/o 
without 
PSA 
prostate specific antigen 
PTB 
patellar tendon bearing 
PTK 
phototherapeutic keratectomy 
PVC 
polyvinyl chloride 
R 
right 
Repl 
replace 
WAK 
wearable artificial kidney 
WC 
wheelchair 
WHFO 
wrist-hand-finger orthotic 
wk 
week 
Xe 
Xenon (isotope mass of xenon 133) 
RN 
registered nurse 
RP 
retrograde pyelogram 
Rx 
prescription 
SACH 
solid ankle, cushion heel 
SC 
subcutaneous 
SCT 
specialty care transport 
SEO 
shoulder-elbow orthosis 
SEWHO 
shoulder-elbow-wrist-hand orthosis 
SEXA 
single energy X-ray absorptiometry 
SGD 
speech generating device 
SM 
samarium 
597 
This page intentionally left blank 
Appendix D 
Place of Service/Type of Service 
Place of Service 
Code 
Place of Service 
Place of Service Description 
01 
Pharmacy 
A facility or location where drugs and other medically related items and services are sold, 
dispensed, or otherwise provided directly to patients. 
02 
Telehealth Provided 
The location where health services and health related services are provided or received, 
Other than in Patient's 
through telecommunication technology. Patient is not located in their home when receiving 
Home 
health services or health related services through telecommunication technology. 
03 
School 
A facility whose primary purpose is education. 
04 
Homeless Shelter 
A facility or location whose primary purpose is to provide temporary housing to homeless 
individuals (e.g., emergency shelters, individual or family shelters). 
05 
Indian Health Service 
A facility or location, owned and operated by the Indian Health Service, which provides 
Free-standing Facility 
diagnostic, therapeutic (surgical and non-surgical), and rehabilitation services to American 
Indians and Alaska Natives who do not require hospitalization. 
06 
Indian Health Service 
A facility or location, owned and operated by the Indian Health Service, which provides 
Provider-based 
diagnostic, therapeutic (surgical and non-surgical), and rehabilitation services rendered by, 
Facility 
or under the supervision of, physicians to American Indians and Alaska Natives admitted as 
inpatients or outpatients. 
07 
Tribal 638 Free-
A facility or location owned and operated by a federally recognized American Indian or 
standing Facility 
Alaska Native tribe or tribal organization under a 638 agreement, which provides diagnostic, 
therapeutic (surgical and non-surgical), and rehabilitation services to tribal members who do 
not require hospitalization. 
08 
Tribal 638 Provider-
A facility or location owned and operated by a federally recognized American Indian or 
based Facility 
Alaska Native tribe or tribal organization under a 638 agreement, which provides diagnostic, 
therapeutic (surgical and non-surgical), and rehabilitation services to tribal members 
admitted as inpatients or outpatients. 
09 
Prison/ Correctional 
A prison, jail, reformatory, work farm, detention center, or any other similar facility maintained 
Facility 
by either Federal, State or local authorities for the purpose of confinement or rehabilitation of 
adult or juvenile criminal offenders. 
10 
Telehealth Provided in 
The location where health services and health related services are provided or received, 
Patient's Home 
through telecommunication technology. Patient is located in their home (which is a location 
other than a hospital or other facility where the patient receives care in a private residence) 
when receiving health services or health related services through telecommunication 
technology. 
11 
Office 
Location, other than a hospital, skilled nursing facility (SNF), military treatment facility, 
community health center, State or local public health clinic, or intermediate care facility 
(ICF), where the health professional routinely provides health examinations, diagnosis, and 
treatment of illness or injury on an ambulatory basis. 
12 
Home 
Location, other than a hospital or other facility, where the patient receives care in a private 
residence. 
13 
Assisted Living 
Congregate residential facility with self-contained living units providing assessment of each 
Facility 
resident's needs and on-site support 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with the capacity to 
deliver or arrange for services including some health care and other services. 
14 
Group Home 
A residence, with shared living areas, where clients receive supervision and other services 
such as social and/or behavioral services, custodial service, and minimal services (e.g., 
medication administration). 
15 
Mobile Unit 
A facility/unit that moves from place-to-place equipped to provide preventive, screening, 
diagnostic, and/or treatment services. 
16 
Temporary Lodging 
A short term accommodation such as a hotel, camp ground, hostel, cruise ship or resort 
where the patient receives care, and which is not identified by any other POS code. 
599 
17-52
Appendix D Place of Service/Type of Service 
Code 
Place of Service 
Place of Service Description 
17 
Walk-in Retail Health 
A walk-in health clinic, other than an office, urgent care facility, pharmacy or independent 
Clinic 
clinic and not described by any other Place of Service code, that is located within a retail 
operation and provides, on an ambulatory basis, preventive and primary care services. 
18 
Place of Employment-
A location, not described by any other POS code, owned or operated by a public or private 
Worksite 
entity where the patient is employed, and where a health professional provides on-going or 
episodic occupational medical, therapeutic or rehabilitative services to the individual. 
19 
Off Campus-
A portion of an off-campus hospital provider based department which provides diagnostic, 
Outpatient Hospital 
therapeutic (both surgical and nonsurgical), and rehabilitation services to sick or injured 
persons who do not require hospitalization or institutionalization. 
20 
Urgent Care Facility 
Location, distinct from a hospital emergency room, an office, or a clinic, whose purpose is to 
diagnose and treat illness or injury for unscheduled, ambulatory patients seeking immediate
medical attention. 
21 
Inpatient Hospital 
A facility, other than psychiatric, which primarily provides diagnostic, therapeutic (both 
surgical and nonsurgical), and rehabilitation services by, or under, the supervision of 
physicians to patients admitted for a variety of medical conditions. 
22 
On Campus-
A portion of a hospital's main campus which provides diagnostic, therapeutic (both surgical 
Outpatient Hospital 
and nonsurgical), and rehabilitation services to sick or injured persons who do not require 
hospitalization or institutionalization. 
23 
Emergency Room -
A portion of a hospital where emergency diagnosis and treatment of illness or injury is 
Hospital 
provided. 
24 
Ambulatory Surgical 
A freestanding facility, other than a physician's office, where surgical and diagnostic services 
Center 
are provided on an ambulatory basis. 
25 
Birthing Center 
A facility, other than a hospital's maternity facilities or a physician's office, which provides 
a setting for labor, delivery, and immediate post- partum care as well as immediate care of 
newborn infants. 
26 
Military Treatment 
A medical facility operated by one or more of the Uniformed Services. Military Treatment 
Facility 
Facility (MTF) also refers to certain former U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS) facilities 
now designated as Uniformed Service Treatment Facilities (USTF). 
31 
Skilled Nursing 
A facility which primarily provides inpatient skilled nursing care and related services to 
Facility 
patients who require medical, nursing, or rehabilitative services but does not provide the 
level of care or treatment available in a hospital. 
32 
Nursing Facility 
A facility which primarily provides to residents skilled nursing care and related services for 
the rehabilitation of injured, disabled, or sick persons, or, on a regular basis, health-related 
care services above the level of custodial care to other than individuals with intellectual 
disabilities. 
33 
Custodial Care Facility A facility which provides room, board and other personal assistance services, generally on a 
long- term basis, and which does not include a medical component. 
34 
Hospice 
A facility, other than a patient's home, in which palliative and supportive care for terminally ill 
patients and their families are provided. 
41 
Ambulance - Land 
A land vehicle specifically designed, equipped and staffed for lifesaving and transporting the 
sick or injured. 
42 
Ambulance - Air or 
An air or water vehicle specifically designed, equipped and staffed for lifesaving and 
Water 
transporting the sick or injured. 
49 
Independent Clinic 
A location, not part of a hospital and not described by any other Place of Service code, that 
is organized and operated to provide preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic, rehabilitative, or 
palliative services to outpatients only. 
50 
Federally Qualified 
A facility located in a medically underserved area that provides Medicare beneficiaries 
Health Center 
preventive primary medical care under the general direction of a physician. 
51 
Inpatient Psychiatric 
A facility that provides inpatient psychiatric services for the diagnosis and treatment of 
Facility 
mental illness on a 24-hour basis, by or under the supervision of a physician. 
52 
Psychiatric Facility-
A facility for the diagnosis and treatment of mental illness that provides a planned 
Partial Hospitalization 
therapeutic program for patients who do not require full time hospitalization, but who need 
broader programs than are possible from outpatient visits to a hospital-based or hospital-
affiliated facility. 
600 
Appendix D Place of Service/Type of Service 
53-99
Code 
Place of Service 
Place of Service Description 
53 
Community Mental 
A facility that provides the following services: outpatient services, including specialized 
Health Center 
outpatient services for children, the elderly, individuals who are chronically ill, and residents 
of the CMHC's mental health services area who have been discharged from inpatient 
treatment at a mental health facility; 24 hour a day emergency care services; day treatment, 
other partial hospitalization services, or psychosocial rehabilitation services; screening for 
patients being considered for admission to State mental health facilities to determine the 
appropriateness of such admission; and consultation and education services. 
54 
Intermediate Care 
A facility which primarily provides health-related care and services above the level of 
Facility/Individuals 
custodial care to individuals but does not provide the level of care or treatment available in a 
with Intellectual 
hospital or SNF. 
Disabilities 
55 
Residential Substance 
A facility which provides treatment for substance (alcohol and drug) abuse to live-
Abuse Treatment 
in residents who do not require acute medical care. Services include individual and 
Facility 
group therapy and counseling, family counseling, laboratory tests, drugs and supplies, 
psychological testing, and room and board. 
56 
Psychiatric 
A facility or distinct part of a facility for psychiatric care which provides a total 24-hour 
Residential Treatment 
therapeutically planned and professionally staffed group living and learning environment. 
Center 
57 
Non-residential 
A location which provides treatment for substance (alcohol and drug) abuse on an 
Substance Abuse 
ambulatory basis. Services include individual and group therapy and counseling, family 
Treatment Facility 
counseling, laboratory tests, drugs and supplies, and psychological testing. 
58 
Non-residential Opioid 
A location that provides treatment for opioid use disorder on an ambulatory basis. Services 
Treatment Facility 
include methadone and other forms of Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT). 
60 
Mass Immunization 
A location where providers administer pneumococcal pneumonia and influenza virus 
Center 
vaccinations and submit these services as electronic media claims, paper claims, or using 
the roster billing method. This generally takes place in a mass immunization setting, such 
as, a public health center, pharmacy, or mall but may include a physician office setting. 
61 
Comprehensive 
A facility that provides comprehensive rehabilitation services under the supervision of 
Inpatient 
a physician to inpatients with physical disabilities. Services include physical therapy, 
Rehabilitation Facility 
occupational therapy, speech pathology, social or psychological services, and orthotics and 
prosthetics services. 
62 
Comprehensive 
A facility that provides comprehensive rehabilitation services under the supervision of 
Outpatient 
a physician to outpatients with physical disabilities. Services include physical therapy, 
Rehabilitation Facility 
occupational therapy, and speech pathology services. 
65 
End-Stage Renal 
A facility other than a hospital, which provides dialysis treatment, maintenance, and/or 
Disease Treatment 
training to patients or caregivers on an ambulatory or home-care basis. 
Facility 
71 
State or Local Public 
A facility maintained by either State or local health departments that provides ambulatory 
Health Clinic 
primary medical care under the general direction of a physician. 
72 
Rural Health Clinic 
A certified facility which is located in a rural medically underserved area that provides 
ambulatory primary medical care under the general direction of a physician. 
81 
Independent 
A laboratory certified to perform diagnostic and/or clinical tests independent of an institution 
Laboratory 
or a physician's office. 
99 
Other Place of Service Other place of service not identified above. 
601 
0-W
Appendix D Place of Service/Type of Service 
Type of Service 
Code 
Type of Service Description 
0 
Whole Blood 
1 
Medical Care 
2 
Surgery 
3 
Consultation 
4 
Diagnostic Radiology 
5 
Diagnostic Laboratory 
6 
Therapeutic Radiology 
7 
Anesthesia 
8 
Assistant at Surgery 
9 
Other Medical Items or Services 
A 
Used DME 
B 
High Risk Screening Mammography 
C 
Low Risk Screening Mammography 
D 
Ambulance 
E 
Enteral/Parenteral Nutrients/Supplies 
602 
F 
Ambulatory Surgical Center (Facility Usage for 
Surgical Services) 
Code 
Type of Service Description 
G 
lmmunosuppressive Drugs 
H 
Hospice 
J 
Diabetic Shoes 
K 
Hearing Items and Services 
L 
ESRD Supplies 
M 
Monthly Capitation Payment for Dialysis 
N 
Kidney Donor 
p 
Lump Sum Purchase of DME, Prosthetics, 
Orthotics 
Q 
Vision Items or Services 
R 
Rental of DME 
s 
Surgical Dressings or Other Medical Supplies 
T 
Outpatient Mental Health Treatment Limitation 
u
Occupational Therapy
V 
Pneumococcal/Flu Vaccine
w 
Physical Therapy
Appendix E 
APC Status Indicators 
This status indicator list reflects proposed OPPS payment status indicators for CY 2024 available when this book was published. 
Status Indicator 
Definition 
A 
Services furnished to a hospital outpatient that are paid under a fee schedule or payment system other 
than OPPS,* for example: 
• Ambulance Services
• Separately Payable Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Services
• Separately Payable Non-Implantable Prosthetics and Orthotics
• Physical, Occupational, and Speech Therapy
• Diagnostic Mammography
• Unclassified drugs and biologicals reportable under HCPCS code C9399
B 
Codes that are not recognized by OPPS when submitted on an outpatient hospital Part B bill type (12x and 
13x). 
C 
Inpatient Procedures 
D 
Discontinued Codes 
E1 
Items, Codes, and Services: 
• Not covered by any Medicare outpatient benefit category
• Statutorily excluded by Medicare
• Not reasonable and necessary
E2 
Items, Codes, and Services: 
For which pricing information and claims data are not available 
F 
Corneal Tissue Acquisition; Certain CRNA Services 
G 
Pass-Through Drugs and Biologicals 
H 
Pass-Through Device Categories 
J1 
Hospital Part B Services Paid Through a Comprehensive APC 
J2 
Hospital Part B Services That May Be Paid Through a Comprehensive APC 
K 
Nonpass-Through Drugs and Nonimplantable Biologicals, Including Therapeutic Radiopharmaceuticals 
L 
Influenza Vaccine; Pneumococcal Pneumonia Vaccine; Covid-19 Vaccine; Monoclonal Antibody Therapy 
Product 
M 
Items and Services Not Billable to the MAC 
N 
Items and Services Packaged Into APC Rates 
p 
Partial Hospitalization or Intensive Outpatient Program 
Q1 
STV-Packaged Codes 
Q2 
T-Packaged Codes
Q3 
Codes That May Be Paid Through a Composite APC 
Q4 
Conditionally Packaged Laboratory Tests 
R 
Blood and Blood Products 
s 
Procedure or Service, Not Discounted When Multiple 
T 
Procedure or Service, Multiple Procedure Reduction Applies 
u 
Brachytherapy Sources 
V 
Clinic or Emergency Department Visit 
y 
Non-Implantable Durable Medical Equipment 
• Note - Payments under a fee schedule or payment system other than OPPS may be contractor priced. 
603 
This page intentionally left blank 
Appendix F 
ASC Payment Indicators 
Proposed ASC Payment Indicators for CY 2024 Proposed ASC Payment (Addendum 001) 
This payment indicator list reflects proposed OPPS/ASC payment indicators for CY 2024 available when 
this book was published. Be sure to check the CMS website at www.cms.gov for final changes. 
Indicator 
Payment Indicator Definition 
A2 
Surgical procedure on ASC list in CY 2007; payment based on OPPS relative payment weight. 
85 
Alternative code may be available; no payment made. 
D1 
Ancillary dental service/item; no separate payment made. 
D2 
Non office-based dental procedure added in CY 2024 or later. 
D5 
Deleted/discontinued code; no payment made. 
F4 
Corneal tissue acquisition, hepatitis B vaccine; paid at reasonable cost. 
G2 
Non office-based surgical procedure added in CY 2008 or later; payment based on OPPS relative payment 
weight. 
H2 
Brachytherapy source paid separately when provided integral to a surgical procedure on ASC list; payment 
based on OPPS rate. 
J7 
OPPS pass-through device paid separately when provided integral to a surgical procedure on ASC list; 
payment contractor-priced. 
JS 
Device-intensive procedure; paid at adjusted rate. 
K2 
Drugs and biologicals paid separately when provided integral to a surgical procedure on ASC list; payment 
based on OPPS rate. 
KS 
Items, codes, and services for which pricing information and claims data are not available. No payment 
made. 
K7 
Unclassified drugs and biologicals; payment contractor-priced. 
L1 
Influenza vaccine; pneumococcal vaccine. Packaged item/service; no separate payment made. 
L6 
New Technology lntraocular Lens (NTIOL); special payment. 
N1 
Packaged service/item; no separate payment made. 
P2 
Office-based surgical procedure added to ASC list in CY 2008 or later with MPFS nonfacility PE RVUs; 
payment based on OPPS relative payment weight. 
P3 
Office-based surgical procedure added to ASC list in CY 2008 or later with MPFS nonfacility PE RVUs; 
payment based on MPFS nonfacility PE RVUs. 
R2 
Office-based surgical procedure added to ASC list in CY 2008 or later without MPFS nonfacility PE RVUs; 
payment based on OPPS relative payment weight. 
22 
Radiology or diagnostic service paid separately when provided integral to a surgical procedure on ASC list; 
payment based on OPPS relative payment weight. 
23 
Radiology or diagnostic service paid separately when provided integral to a surgical procedure on ASC list; 
payment based on MPFS nonfacility PE RVUs. 
605 
This page intentionally left blank 
-
AppendixG 
Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
A9500 
A9512 
1 
C5276 
G0471 
1 
C9602 
G0471 
1 
A9501 
A9512 
0 
C5276 
J0670 
1 
C9603 
G0269 
1 
A9502 
A9512 
0 
C5276 
J2001 
1 
C9603 
G0471 
1 
A9503 
A9512 
0 
C5277 
G0168 
1 
C9604 
G0269 
1 
A9504 
A9512 
0 
C5277 
G0471 
1 
C9604 
G0471 
1 
A9510 
A9512 
0 
C5277 
J0670 
1 
C9605 
G0269 
1 
A9521 
A9512 
0 
C5277 
J2001 
1 
C9605 
G0471 
1 
A9536 
A9512 
0 
C5278 
G0168 
1 
C9606 
G0269 
1 
A9537 
A9512 
0 
C5278 
G0471 
1 
C9606 
G0471 
1 
A9538 
A9512 
0 
C5278 
J0670 
1 
C9607 
G0269 
1 
A9539 
A9512 
0 
C5278 
J2001 
1 
C9607 
G0471 
1 
A9540 
A9512 
1 
C8906 
C8903 
1 
C9608 
G0269 
1 
A9541 
A9512 
1 
C8906 
C8905 
1 
C9608 
G0471 
1 
A9550 
A9512 
0 
C8908 
C8903 
1 
C9738 
80463 
1 
A9551 
A9512 
0 
C8908 
C8905 
1 
C9738 
G0471 
0 
A9557 
A9512 
0 
C8921 
C8922 
1 
C9738 
J2001 
1 
A9560 
A9512 
0 
C8923 
C8924 
1 
C9738 
P9612 
0 
A9561 
A9512 
0 
C8923 
C8929 
0 
C9739 
G0463 
1 
A9562 
A9512 
0 
C8928 
C8923 
1 
C9739 
G0471 
0 
A9566 
A9512 
0 
C8928 
C8924 
1 
C9739 
J2001 
1 
A9567 
A9512 
0 
C8928 
C8925 
1 
C9739 
P9612 
0 
A9568 
A9512 
0 
C8928 
C8927 
0 
C9740 
C9739 
0 
A9569 
A9512 
0 
C8928 
C8929 
1 
C9740 
80463 
1 
C5271 
G0168 
1 
C8928 
C8930 
0 
C9740 
G0471 
0 
C5271 
G0471 
1 
C8929 
C8924 
1 
C9740 
J2001 
1 
C5271 
J0670 
1 
C8930 
C8929 
1 
C9740 
P9612 
0 
C5271 
J2001 
1 
C8931 
C8932 
0 
C9751 
80463 
1 
C5272 
G0168 
1 
C8931 
J1642 
1 
C9751 
80471 
1 
C5272 
G0471 
1 
C8932 
J1642 
1 
C9751 
J0670 
1 
C5272 
J0670 
1 
C8933 
C8931 
0 
C9751 
J2001 
1 
C5272 
J2001 
1 
C8933 
C8932 
0 
C9761 
G0463 
1 
C5273 
G0168 
1 
C8933 
J1642 
1 
C9761 
80471 
0 
C5273 
G0471 
1 
C8934 
C8935 
0 
C9761 
P9612 
1 
C5273 
J0670 
1 
C8934 
J1642 
1 
C9765 
C9764 
1 
C5273 
J2001 
1 
C8935 
J1642 
1 
C9766 
C9764 
1 
C5274 
G0168 
1 
C8936 
C8934 
0 
C9767 
C9764 
1 
C5274 
G0471 
1 
C8936 
C8935 
0 
C9767 
C9765 
1 
C5274 
J0670 
1 
C8936 
J1642 
1 
C9767 
C9766 
1 
C5274 
J2001 
1 
C8957 
G0463 
1 
C9769 
C9739 
1 
C5275 
G0168 
1 
C9600 
G0269 
1 
C9769 
C9740 
1 
C5275 
G0471 
1 
C9600 
G0471 
1 
C9769 
G0463 
1 
C5275 
J0670 
1 
C9601 
G0269 
1 
C9769 
G0471 
0 
C5275 
J2001 
1 
C9601 
G0471 
1 
C9769 
J0670 
1 
C5276 
G0168 
1 
C9602 
G0269 
1 
C9769 
J2001 
1 
607 
C9769 - GOl 27 
Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
C9769 
P9612 
0 
G0105 
G0181 
1 
G0120 
G0381 
1 
C9773 
C9772 
1 
G0105 
G0182 
1 
G0120 
G0382 
1 
C9773 
C9774 
1 
G0105 
G0380 
1 
G0120 
G0383 
1 
C9773 
C9775 
1 
G0105 
G0381 
1 
G0120 
G0384 
1 
C9774 
C9772 
1 
G0105 
G0382 
1 
G0120 
G0406 
1 
C9774 
C9775 
1 
G0105 
G0383 
1 
G0120 
G0407 
1 
C9775 
C9772 
1 
G0105 
G0384 
1 
G0120 
G0408 
1 
C9778 
G0463 
1 
G0105 
G0406 
1 
G0120 
G0425 
1 
C9778 
G0471 
0 
G0105 
G0407 
1 
G0120 
G0426 
1 
E0781 
E0782 
1 
G0105 
G0408 
1 
G0120 
G0427 
1 
G0101 
G0181 
1 
G0105 
G0425 
1 
G0120 
G0463 
1 
G0101 
G0182 
1 
G0105 
G0426 
1 
G0120 
G0508 
1 
G0101 
G0380 
1 
G0105 
G0427 
1 
G0120 
G0509 
1 
G0101 
G0381 
1 
G0105 
G0463 
1 
G0121 
G0105 
0 
G0101 
G0382 
1 
G0105 
G0471 
1 
G0121 
G0122 
0 
G0101 
G0383 
1 
G0105 
G0508 
1 
G0121 
G0380 
1 
G0101 
G0384 
1 
G0105 
G0509 
1 
G0121 
G0381 
1 
G0101 
G0406 
1 
G0106 
G0105 
0 
G0121 
G0382 
1 
G0101 
G0407 
1 
G0106 
G0121 
0 
G0121 
G0383 
1 
G0101 
G0408 
1 
G0106 
G0122 
0 
G0121 
G0384 
1 
G0101 
G0425 
1 
G0106 
G0181 
1 
G0121 
G0406 
1 
G0101 
G0426 
1 
G0106 
G0182 
1 
G0121 
G0407 
1 
G0101 
G0427 
1 
G0106 
G0380 
1 
G0121 
G0408 
1 
G0101 
G0463 
1 
G0106 
G0381 
1 
G0121 
G0425 
1 
G0101 
G0508 
1 
G0106 
G0382 
1 
G0121 
G0426 
1 
G0101 
GQ509 
1 
G0106 
G0383 
1 
G0121 
G0427 
1 
G0104 
G0105 
0 
G0106 
G0384 
1 
G0121 
G0463 
1 
G0104 
G0106 
1 
G0106 
G0406 
1 
G0121 
G0471 
1 
G0104 
G0120 
1 
G0106 
G0407 
1 
G0121 
G0508 
1 
G0104 
G0121 
0 
G0106 
G0408 
1 
G0121 
G0509 
1 
G0104 
G0181 
1 
G0106 
G0425 
1 
G0123 
P3000 
0 
G0104 
G0182 
1 
G0106 
G0426 
1 
G0124 
G0141 
0 
G0104 
G0380 
1 
G0106 
G0427 
1 
G0124 
G0147 
0 
G0104 
G0381 
1 
G0106 
G0463 
1 
G0124 
G0148 
0 
G0104 
G0382 
1 
G0106 
G0508 
1 
G0124 
P3000 
0 
G0104 
G0383 
1 
G0106 
G0509 
1 
G0124 
P3001 
0 
G0104 
G0384 
1 
G0108 
G0270 
0 
G0127 
G0380 
1 
G0104 
G0406 
1 
G0108 
G0271 
0 
G0127 
G0381 
1 
G0104 
G0407 
1 
G0109 
G0270 
0 
G0127 
G0382 
1 
G0104 
G0408 
1 
G0109 
G0271 
0 
G0127 
G0383 
1 
G0104 
G0425 
1 
G0117 
G0118 
0 
G0127 
G0384 
1 
G0104 
G0426 
1 
G0120 
G0105 
0 
G0127 
G0406 
1 
G0104 
G0427 
1 
G0120 
G0106 
0 
G0127 
G0407 
1 
G0104 
G0463 
1 
G0120 
G0121 
0 
G0127 
G0408 
1 
G0104 
G0471 
1 
G0120 
G0122 
0 
G0127 
G0425 
1 
G0104 
G0508 
1 
G0120 
G0181 
1 
G0127 
G0426 
1 
G0104 
G0509 
1 
G0120 
G0182 
1 
G0127 
G0427 
1 
G0105 
G0122 
0 
G0120 
G0380 
1 
G0127 
G0463 
1 
608 
Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
G0127- G0337 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
G0127 
G0471 
1 
G0268 
G0463 
1 
G0304 
G0463 
1 
G0127 
G0508 
1 
G0268 
G0471 
1 
G0304 
G0508 
1 
G0127 
G0509 
1 
G0270 
G0271 
0 
G0304 
G0509 
1 
G0141 
G0123 
0 
G0276 
G0453 
0 
G0305 
G0380 
1 
G0141 
G0143 
0 
G0281 
G0283 
1 
G0305 
G0381 
1 
G0141 
G0144 
0 
G0281 
G0329 
0 
G0305 
G0382 
1 
G0141 
P3000 
0 
G0302 
G0303 
0 
G0305 
G0383 
1 
G0145 
G0147 
0 
G0302 
G0304 
0 
G0305 
G0384 
1 
G0145 
G0148 
0 
G0302 
G0380 
1 
G0305 
G0406 
1 
G0148 
G0147 
0 
G0302 
G0381 
1 
G0305 
G0407 
1 
G0151 
G0281 
1 
G0302 
G0382 
1 
G0305 
G0408 
1 
G0151 
G0283 
1 
G0302 
G0383 
1 
G0305 
G0425 
1 
G0151 
G0329 
1 
G0302 
G0384 
1 
G0305 
G0426 
1 
G0157 
G0281 
1 
G0302 
G0406 
1 
G0305 
G0427 
1 
G0157 
G0283 
1 
G0302 
G0407 
1 
G0305 
G0463 
1 
G0157 
G0329 
1 
G0302 
G0408 
1 
G0305 
G0508 
1 
G0159 
G0281 
1 
G0302 
G0425 
1 
G0305 
G0509 
1 
G0159 
G0283 
1 
G0302 
G0426 
1 
G0306 
G0307 
0 
G0159 
G0329 
1 
G0302 
G0427 
1 
G0327 
G0104 
0 
G0162 
G0008 
1 
G0302 
G0463 
1 
G0327 
G0105 
0 
G0162 
G0009 
1 
G0302 
G0508 
1 
G0327 
G0106 
0 
G0162 
G0010 
1 
G0302 
G0509 
1 
G0327 
G0120 
0 
G0162 
G0128 
1 
G0303 
G0304 
0 
G0327 
G0121 
0 
G0162 
P9612 
1 
G0303 
G0380 
1 
G0327 
G0122 
0 
G0162 
P9615 
1 
G0303 
G0381 
1 
G0327 
G0452 
1 
G0168 
G0463 
1 
G0303 
G0382 
1 
G0327 
G0476 
1 
G0168 
G0471 
1 
G0303 
G0383 
1 
G0329 
G0283 
1 
G0168 
J0670 
1 
G0303 
G0384 
1 
G0337 
G0101 
0 
G0168 
J2001 
1 
G0303 
G0406 
1 
G0337 
G0102 
0 
G0179 
G0180 
0 
G0303 
G0407 
1 
G0337 
G0104 
0 
G0181 
G0102 
1 
G0303 
G0408 
1 
G0337 
G0105 
0 
G0181 
G0182 
1 
G0303 
G0425 
1 
G0337 
G0106 
0 
G0181 
G0506 
0 
G0303 
G0426 
1 
G0337 
G0117 
0 
G0181 
G0511 
0 
G0303 
G0427 
1 
G0337 
G0118 
0 
G0182 
G0102 
1 
G0303 
G0463 
1 
G0337 
G0120 
0 
G0182 
G0506 
0 
G0303 
G0508 
1 
G0337 
G0121 
0 
G0182 
G0511 
0 
G0303 
G0509 
1 
G0337 
G0245 
0 
G0239 
G0237 
1 
G0304 
G0380 
1 
G0337 
G0246 
0 
G0239 
G0238 
1 
G0304 
G0381 
1 
G0337 
G0248 
0 
G0245 
G0127 
0 
G0304 
G0382 
1 
G0337 
G0250 
1 
G0245 
G0246 
0 
G0304 
G0383 
1 
G0337 
G0270 
0 
G0246 
G0127 
0 
G0304 
G0384 
1 
G0337 
G0271 
0 
G0247 
G0127 
0 
G0304 
G0406 
1 
G0337 
G0410 
1 
G0257 
G0491 
1 
G0304 
G0407 
1 
G0337 
G0411 
1 
G0257 
G0492 
1 
G0304 
G0408 
1 
G0337 
G0459 
0 
G0259 
G0471 
1 
G0304 
G0425 
1 
G0337 
G0463 
0 
G0260 
G0259 
0 
G0304 
G0426 
1 
G0337 
P3000 
0 
G0260 
G0471 
1 
G0304 
G0427 
1 
G0337 
P3001 
0 
609 
G0337 - G0408 
Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
G0337 
Q0091 
0 
G0343 
G0471 
1 
G0397 
G0396 
0 
G0339 
G0340 
1 
G0380 
G0102 
1 
G0397 
G0442 
0 
G0339 
G0459 
0 
G0380 
G0245 
1 
G0397 
G2011 
0 
G0339 
G0463 
0 
G0380 
G0246 
1 
G0398 
G0399 
0 
G0339 
G0471 
0 
G0380 
G0270 
1 
G0398 
G0400 
0 
G0339 
G0500 
0 
G0380 
G0271 
1 
G0399 
G0400 
0 
G0339 
G6002 
0 
G0380 
G0459 
1 
G0402 
G0250 
1 
G0339 
G6003 
1 
G0380 
G0498 
1 
G0402 
G0270 
0 
G0339 
G6004 
1 
G0381 
G0102 
1 
G0402 
G0271 
0 
G0339 
G6005 
1 
G0381 
G0245 
1 
G0402 
G0380 
1 
G0339 
G6006 
1 
G0381 
G0246 
1 
G0402 
G0381 
1 
G0339 
G6007 
1 
G0381 
G0270 
1 
G0402 
G0382 
1 
G0339 
G6008 
1 
G0381 
G0271 
1 
G0402 
G0383 
1 
G0339 
G6009 
1 
G0381 
G0380 
1 
G0402 
G0384 
1 
G0339 
G6010 
1 
G0381 
G0459 
1 
G0402 
G0438 
0 
G0339 
G6011 
1 
G0381 
G0498 
1 
G0402 
G0439 
0 
G0339 
G6012 
1 
G0382 
G0102 
1 
G0402 
G0444 
0 
G0339 
G6013 
1 
G0382 
G0245 
1 
G0402 
G0459 
1 
G0339 
G6014 
1 
G0382 
G0246 
1 
G0402 
G0463 
1 
G0340 
G0459 
0 
G0382 
G0270 
1 
G0403 
G0404 
0 
G0340 
G0463 
0 
G0382 
G0271 
1 
G0403 
G0405 
0 
G0340 
G0471 
0 
G0382 
G0380 
1 
G0406 
G0102 
0 
G0340 
G0500 
0 
G0382 
G0381 
1 
G0406 
G0245 
0 
G0340 
G6002 
0 
G0382 
G0459 
1 
G0406 
G0246 
0 
G0340 
G6003 
1 
G0382 
G0498 
1 
G0406 
G0250 
0 
G0340 
G6004 
1 
G0383 
G0102 
1 
G0406 
G0270 
0 
G0340 
G6005 
1 
G0383 
G0245 
1 
G0406 
G0271 
0 
G0340 
G6006 
1 
G0383 
G0246 
1 
G0406 
G0459 
0 
G0340 
G6007 
1 
G0383 
G0270 
1 
G0406 
G0498 
1 
G0340 
G6008 
1 
G0383 
G0271 
1 
G0407 
G0102 
0 
G0340 
G6009 
1 
G0383 
G0380 
1 
G0407 
G0245 
0 
G0340 
G6010 
1 
G0383 
G0381 
1 
G0407 
G0246 
0 
G0340 
G6011 
1 
G0383 
G0382 
1 
G0407 
G0250 
0 
G0340 
G6012 
1 
G0383 
G0459 
1 
G0407 
G0270 
0 
G0340 
G6013 
1 
G0383 
G0498 
1 
G0407 
G0271 
0 
G0340 
G6014 
1 
G0384 
G0102 
1 
G0407 
G0406 
0 
G0341 
G0463 
1 
G0384 
G0245 
1 
G0407 
G0459 
0 
G0341 
G0471 
1 
G0384 
G0246 
1 
G0407 
G0498 
1 
G0341 
J0670 
1 
G0384 
G0270 
1 
G0408 
G0102 
0 
G0341 
J1642 
1 
G0384 
G0271 
1 
G0408 
G0245 
0 
G0341 
J1644 
1 
G0384 
G0380 
1 
G0408 
G0246 
0 
G0341 
J2001 
1 
G0384 
G0381 
1 
G0408 
G0250 
0 
G0342 
G0341 
0 
G0384 
G0382 
1 
G0408 
G0270 
0 
G0342 
G0463 
1 
G0384 
G0383 
1 
G0408 
G0271 
0 
G0342 
G0471 
1 
G0384 
G0459 
1 
G0408 
G0406 
0 
G0343 
G0341 
0 
G0384 
G0498 
1 
G0408 
G0407 
0 
G0343 
G0342 
0 
G0396 
G0442 
0 
G0408 
G0459 
0 
G0343 
G0463 
1 
G0396 
G2011 
0 
G0408 
G0498 
1 
610 
Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
G0409 - G0445 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
G0409 
G0155 
1 
G0425 
G0408 
0 
G0439 
G0250 
1 
G0409 
G0176 
1 
G0425 
G0459 
0 
G0439 
G0270 
0 
G0409 
G0177 
1 
G0425 
G0498 
1 
G0439 
G0271 
0 
G0409 
G0459 
1 
G0426 
G0102 
0 
G0439 
G0380 
1 
G0410 
G0176 
1 
G0426 
G0245 
0 
G0439 
G0381 
1 
G0410 
G0177 
1 
G0426 
G0246 
0 
G0439 
G0382 
1 
G0410 
G0270 
0 
G0426 
G0250 
G0439 
G0383 
1 
G0410 
G0271 
0 
G0426 
G0270 
0 
G0439 
G0384 
1 
G0410 
G0380 
1 
G0426 
G0271 
0 
G0439 
G0459 
1 
G0410 
G0381 
1 
G0426 
G0406 
0 
G0439 
G0463 
1 
G0410 
G0382 
1 
G0426 
G0407 
0 
G0442 
G0250 
1 
G0410 
G0383 
1 
G0426 
G0408 
0 
G0442 
G0270 
0 
G0410 
G0384 
1 
G0426 
G0425 
0 
G0442 
G0271 
0 
G0410 
G0459 
0 
G0426 
G0459 
0 
G0442 
G0380 
1 
G0410 
G0463 
1 
G0426 
G0498 
G0442 
G0381 
1 
G0411 
G0176 
1 
G0426 
G0508 
0 
G0442 
G0382 
1 
G0411 
G0177 
1 
G0426 
G0509 
0 
G0442 
G0383 
1 
G0411 
G0270 
0 
G0427 
G0102 
0 
G0442 
G0384 
1 
G0411 
G0271 
0 
G0427 
G0245 
0 
G0442 
G0459 
1 
G0411 
G0380 
1 
G0427 
G0246 
0 
G0443 
G0250 
1 
G0411 
G0381 
1 
G0427 
G0250 
1 
G0443 
G0270 
0 
G0411 
G0382 
1 
G0427 
G0270 
0 
G0443 
G0271 
0 
G0411 
G0383 
1 
G0427 
G0271 
0 
G0443 
G0380 
1 
G0411 
G0384 
1 
G0427 
G0406 
0 
G0443 
G0381 
1 
G0411 
G0410 
1 
G0427 
G0407 
0 
G0443 
G0382 
1 
G0411 
G0459 
0 
G0427 
G0408 
0 
G0443 
G0383 
1 
G0411 
G0463 
1 
G0427 
G0425 
0 
G0443 
G0384 
1 
G0412 
G0463 
1 
G0427 
G0426 
0 
G0443 
G0396 
0 
G0412 
G0471 
1 
G0427 
G0459 
0 
G0443 
G0397 
0 
G0413 
G0463 
1 
G0427 
G0498 
1 
G0443 
G0459 
1 
G0413 
G0471 
1 
G0427 
G0508 
0 
G0443 
G2011 
0 
G0414 
G0463 
1 
G0427 
G0509 
0 
G0444 
G0250 
1 
G0414 
G0471 
1 
G0428 
G0471 
G0444 
G0270 
0 
G0415 
G0413 
1 
G0429 
G0463 
G0444 
G0271 
0 
G0415 
G0463 
1 
G0429 
G0471 
G0444 
G0380 
1 
G0415 
G0471 
1 
G0429 
J2001 
G0444 
G0381 
1 
G0420 
G0421 
1 
G0438 
G0250 
1 
G0444 
G0382 
1 
G0422 
G0423 
1 
G0438 
G0270 
0 
G0444 
G0383 
1 
G0422 
G0471 
1 
G0438 
G0271 
0 
G0444 
G0384 
1 
G0423 
G0471 
1 
G0438 
G0380 
G0445 
G0250 
1 
G0425 
G0102 
0 
G0438 
G0381 
G0445 
G0270 
0 
G0425 
G0245 
0 
G0438 
G0382 
G0445 
G0271 
0 
G0425 
G0246 
0 
G0438 
G0383 
G0445 
G0380 
1 
G0425 
G0250 
1 
G0438 
G0384 
1 
G0445 
G0381 
1 
G0425 
G0270 
0 
G0438 
G0439 
0 
G0445 
G0382 
1 
G0425 
G0271 
0 
G0438 
G0444 
0 
G0445 
G0383 
1 
G0425 
G0406 
0 
G0438 
G0459 
G0445 
G0384 
1 
G0425 
G0407 
0 
G0438 
G0463 
G0445 
G0444 
0 
611 
-----
--
G0447 - G2002 
Column 1 
Column 2 
G0447 
G0473 
G0448 
G0471 
G0455 
G0463 
G0458 
G0471 
G0458 
G0500 
G0458 
P9612 
G0459 
G0250 
G0459 
G0270 
G0459 
G0271 
G0459 
G0444 
G0459 
G0445 
G0459 
G0446 
G0459 
G0447 
G0459 
G0473 
G0460 
P9020 
G0463 
G0102 
G0463 
G0117 
G0463 
G0118 
G0463 
G0245 
G0463 
G0246 
G0463 
G0248 
G0463 
G0250 
G0463 
G0270 
G0463 
G0271 
G0463 
G0396 
G0463 
G0397 
G0463 
G0442 
G0463 
G0443 
G0463 
G0444 
G0463 
G0445 
G0463 
G0446 
G0463 
G0447 
G0463 
G0459 
G0463 
G0473 
G0463 
G2011 
G0471 
G0463 
G0471 
J0670 
G0471 
J2001 
G0471 
P9612 
G0471 
P9615 
G0475 
G0432 
G0475 
G0433 
G0480 
G0659 
G0481 
G0480 
G0481 
G0659 
G0482 
G0480 
G0482 
G0481 
G0482 
G0659 
612 
Modifier 
Column 1 
1 
G0483 
1 
G0483 
1 
G0483 
0 
G0483 
0 
G0491 
0 
G0491 
1 
G0491 
0 
G0491 
0 
G0491 
1 
G0491 
1 
G0491 
1 
G0491 
1 
G0491 
1 
G0491 
1 
G0491 
0 
G0491 
0 
G0491 
0 
G0491 
0 
G0491 
0 
G0491 
1 
G0491 
1 
G0492 
0 
G0492 
0 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
0 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
1 
G0492 
0 
G0498 
0 
G0498 
0 
G0500 
0 
G0500 
0 
G0500 
0 
G0500 
0 
G0500 
0 
G0500 
0 
G0500 
0 
G0500 
Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
G0480 
0 
G0500 
G0425 
1 
G0481 
0 
G0500 
G0426 
1 
G0482 
0 
G0500 
G0427 
1 
G0659 
0 
G0500 
G0463 
1 
G0270 
0 
G0508 
G0102 
0 
G0271 
0 
G0508 
G0245 
0 
G0380 
1 
G0508 
G0246 
0 
G0381 
1 
G0508 
G0250 
1 
G0382 
1 
G0508 
G0270 
0 
G0383 
1 
G0508 
G0271 
0 
G0384 
1 
G0508 
G0406 
0 
G0406 
1 
G0508 
G0407 
0 
G0407 
1 
G0508 
G0408 
0 
G0408 
1 
G0508 
G0459 
0 
G0425 
1 
G0508 
G0509 
0 
G0426 
1 
G0509 
G0102 
0 
G0427 
1 
G0509 
G0245 
0 
G0463 
1 
G0509 
G0246 
0 
G0471 
1 
G0509 
G0250 
1 
G0508 
1 
G0509 
G0270 
0 
G0509 
1 
G0509 
G0271 
0 
G0270 
0 
G0509 
G0406 
0 
G0271 
0 
G0509 
G0407 
0 
G0380 
1 
G0509 
G0408 
0 
G0381 
1 
G0509 
G0459 
0 
G0382 
1 
G0512 
G0181 
0 
G0383 
1 
G0512 
G0182 
0 
G0384 
1 
G0516 
J0670 
1 
G0406 
1 
G0516 
J2001 
1 
G0407 
1 
G0517 
J0670 
1 
G0408 
1 
G0517 
J2001 
1 
G0425 
1 
G0518 
J0670 
1 
G0426 
1 
G0518 
J2001 
1 
G0427 
1 
G2001 
G0076 
0 
G0463 
1 
G2001 
G0077 
0 
G0471 
1 
G2001 
G0078 
0 
G0508 
1 
G2001 
G0079 
0 
G0509 
1 
G2001 
G0080 
0 
G0463 
1 
G2001 
G0081 
0 
J1644 
1 
G2001 
G0082 
0 
G0380 
1 
G2001 
G0083 
0 
G0381 
1 
G2001 
G0084 
0 
G0382 
1 
G2001 
G0085 
0 
G0383 
1 
G2001 
G0086 
0 
G0384 
1 
G2001 
G0087 
0 
G0406 
1 
G2002 
G0076 
0 
G0407 
1 
G2002 
G0077 
0 
G0408 
1 
G2002 
G0078 
0 
Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
G2002 - G6004 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
G2002 
G0079 
0 
G2006 
G0079 
0 
G2013 
G0078 
0 
G2002 
G0080 
0 
G2006 
G0080 
0 
G2013 
G0079 
0 
G2002 
G0081 
0 
G2006 
G0081 
0 
G2013 
G0080 
0 
G2002 
G0082 
0 
G2006 
G0082 
0 
G2013 
G0081 
0 
G2002 
G0083 
0 
G2006 
G0083 
0 
G2013 
G0082 
0 
G2002 
G0084 
0 
G2006 
G0084 
0 
G2013 
G0083 
0 
G2002 
G0085 
0 
G2006 
G0085 
0 
G2013 
G0084 
0 
G2002 
G0086 
0 
G2006 
G0086 
0 
G2013 
G0085 
0 
G2002 
G0087 
0 
G2006 
G0087 
0 
G2013 
G0086 
0 
G2003 
G0076 
0 
G2007 
G0076 
0 
G2013 
G0087 
0 
G2003 
G0077 
0 
G2007 
GOO?? 
0 
G2014 
G0076 
0 
G2003 
G0078 
0 
G2007 
G0078 
0 
G2014 
GOO?? 
0 
G2003 
G0079 
0 
G2007 
G0079 
0 
G2014 
G0078 
0 
G2003 
G0080 
0 
G2007 
G0080 
0 
G2014 
G0079 
0 
G2003 
G0081 
0 
G2007 
G0081 
0 
G2014 
G0080 
0 
G2003 
G0082 
0 
G2007 
G0082 
0 
G2014 
G0081 
0 
G2003 
G0083 
0 
G2007 
G0083 
0 
G2014 
G0082 
0 
G2003 
G0084 
0 
G2007 
G0084 
0 
G2014 
G0083 
0 
G2003 
G0085 
0 
G2007 
G0085 
0 
G2014 
G0084 
0 
G2003 
G0086 
0 
G2007 
G0086 
0 
G2014 
G0085 
0 
G2003 
G0087 
0 
G2007 
G0087 
0 
G2014 
G0086 
0 
G2004 
G0076 
0 
G2008 
G0076 
0 
G2014 
G0087 
0 
G2004 
G0077 
0 
G2008 
G0077 
0 
G2015 
G0076 
0 
G2004 
G0078 
0 
G2008 
G0078 
0 
G2015 
G0077 
0 
G2004 
G0079 
0 
G2008 
G0079 
0 
G2015 
G0078 
0 
G2004 
G0080 
0 
G2008 
G0080 
0 
G2015 
G0079 
0 
G2004 
G0081 
0 
G2008 
G0081 
0 
G2015 
G0080 
0 
G2004 
G0082 
0 
G2008 
G0082 
0 
G2015 
G0081 
0 
G2004 
G0083 
0 
G2008 
G0083 
0 
G2015 
G0082 
0 
G2004 
G0084 
0 
G2008 
G0084 
0 
G2015 
G0083 
0 
G2004 
G0085 
0 
G2008 
G0085 
0 
G2015 
G0084 
0 
G2004 
G0086 
0 
G2008 
G0086 
0 
G2015 
G0085 
0 
G2004 
G0087 
0 
G2008 
G0087 
0 
G2015 
G0086 
0 
G2005 
G0076 
0 
G2009 
G0076 
0 
G2015 
G0087 
0 
G2005 
G0077 
0 
G2009 
GOO?? 
0 
G6001 
G6017 
1 
G2005 
G0078 
0 
G2009 
G0078 
0 
G6002 
G0459 
0 
G2005 
G0079 
0 
G2009 
G0079 
0 
G6002 
G0463 
1 
G2005 
G0080 
0 
G2009 
G0080 
0 
G6002 
G0471 
0 
G2005 
G0081 
0 
G2009 
G0081 
0 
G6002 
G0500 
0 
G2005 
G0082 
0 
G2009 
G0082 
0 
G6002 
G6001 
0 
G2005 
G0083 
0 
G2009 
G0083 
0 
G6002 
G6017 
1 
G2005 
G0084 
0 
G2009 
G0084 
0 
G6003 
G0459 
0 
G2005 
G0085 
0 
G2009 
G0085 
0 
G6003 
G0463 
1 
G2005 
G0086 
0 
G2009 
G0086 
0 
G6003 
G0471 
0 
G2005 
G0087 
0 
G2009 
G0087 
0 
G6003 
G0500 
0 
G2006 
G0076 
0 
G2011 
G0442 
0 
G6004 
G0459 
0 
G2006 
G0077 
0 
G2013 
G0076 
0 
G6004 
G0463 
1 
G2006 
G0078 
0 
G2013 
G0077 
0 
G6004 
G0471 
0 
613 
G6004 - G6017 
Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
G6004 
G0500 
0 
G6010 
G6005 
1 
G6014 
G6003 
1 
G6004 
G6003 
1 
G6010 
G6006 
1 
G6014 
G6004 
1 
G6005 
G0459 
0 
G6010 
G6007 
1 
G6014 
G6005 
1 
G6005 
G0463 
1 
G6010 
G6008 
1 
G6014 
G6006 
1 
G6005 
G0471 
0 
G6010 
G6009 
1 
G6014 
G6007 
1 
G6005 
G0500 
0 
G6011 
G0459 
0 
G6014 
G6008 
1 
G6005 
G6003 
1 
G6011 
G0463 
1 
G6014 
G6009 
1 
G6005 
G6004 
1 
G6011 
G0471 
0 
G6014 
G6010 
1 
G6006 
G0459 
0 
G6011 
G0500 
0 
G6014 
G6011 
1 
G6006 
G0463 
1 
G6011 
G6003 
1 
G6014 
G6012 
1 
G6006 
G0471 
0 
G6011 
G6004 
1 
G6014 
G6013 
1 
G6006 
G0500 
0 
G6011 
G6005 
1 
G6015 
G0339 
0 
G6006 
G6003 
1 
G6011 
G6006 
1 
G6015 
G0340 
0 
G6006 
G6004 
1 
G6011 
G6007 
1 
G6015 
G0459 
0 
G6006 
G6005 
1 
G6011 
G6008 
1 
G6015 
G0463 
1 
G6007 
G0459 
0 
G6011 
G6009 
1 
G6015 
G0471 
0 
G6007 
G0463 
1 
G6011 
G6010 
1 
G6015 
G0500 
0 
G6007 
G0471 
0 
G6012 
G0459 
0 
G6015 
G6003 
0 
G6007 
G0500 
0 
G6012 
G0463 
1 
G6015 
G6004 
0 
G6007 
G6003 
1 
G6012 
G0471 
0 
G6015 
G6005 
0 
G6007 
G6004 
1 
G6012 
G0500 
0 
G6015 
G6006 
0 
G6007 
G6005 
1 
G6012 
G6003 
1 
G6015 
G6007 
0 
G6007 
G6006 
1 
G6012 
G6004 
1 
G6015 
G6008 
0 
G6008 
G0459 
0 
G6012 
G6005 
1 
G6015 
G6009 
0 
G6008 
G0463 
1 
G6012 
G6006 
1 
G6015 
G6010 
0 
G6008 
G0471 
0 
G6012 
G6007 
1 
G6015 
G6011 
0 
G6008 
G0500 
0 
G6012 
G6008 
1 
G6015 
G6012 
0 
G6008 
G6003 
1 
G6012 
G6009 
1 
G6015 
G6013 
0 
G6008 
G6004 
1 
G6012 
G6010 
1 
G6015 
G6014 
0 
G6008 
G6005 
1 
G6012 
G6011 
1 
G6015 
G6016 
0 
G6008 
G6006 
1 
G6013 
G0459 
0 
G6016 
G0339 
0 
G6008 
G6007 
1 
G6013 
G0463 
1 
G6016 
G0340 
0 
G6009 
G0459 
0 
G6013 
G0471 
0 
G6016 
G0459 
0 
G6009 
G0463 
1 
G6013 
G0500 
0 
G6016 
G0463 
0 
G6009 
G0471 
0 
G6013 
G6003 
1 
G6016 
G0471 
0 
G6009 
G0500 
0 
G6013 
G6004 
1 
G6016 
G6003 
1 
G6009 
G6003 
1 
G6013 
G6005 
1 
G6016 
G6004 
1 
G6009 
G6004 
1 
G6013 
G6006 
1 
G6016 
G6005 
1 
G6009 
G6005 
1 
G6013 
G6007 
1 
G6016 
G6006 
1 
G6009 
G6006 
1 
G6013 
G6008 
1 
G6016 
G6007 
1 
G6009 
G6007 
1 
G6013 
G6009 
1 
G6016 
G6008 
1 
G6009 
G6008 
1 
G6013 
G6010 
1 
G6016 
G6009 
1 
G6010 
G0459 
0 
G6013 
G6011 
1 
G6016 
G6010 
1 
G6010 
G0463 
1 
G6013 
G6012 
1 
G6016 
G6011 
1 
G6010 
G0471 
0 
G6014 
G0459 
0 
G6016 
G6012 
1 
G6010 
G0500 
0 
G6014 
G0463 
1 
G6016 
G6013 
1 
G6010 
G6003 
1 
G6014 
G0471 
0 
G6016 
G6014 
1 
G6010 
G6004 
1 
G6014 
G0500 
0 
G6017 
G0459 
1 
614 
Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
G6017 - Q0091 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
G6017 
G0463 
1 
P3001 
G0509 
1 
P9037 
P9016 
1 
G6017 
G0471 
1 
P9011 
P9010 
1 
P9037 
P9019 
1 
G6017 
G0500 
1 
P9011 
P9021 
0 
P9037 
P9020 
1 
J1560 
J1460 
0 
P9011 
P9022 
0 
P9037 
P9021 
1 
J2790 
J2792 
1 
P9011 
P9039 
0 
P9037 
P9022 
1 
J7298 
J7297 
0 
P9022 
P9010 
1 
P9037 
P9031 
1 
M0222 
M0245 
1 
P9022 
P9016 
1 
P9037 
P9034 
1 
M0223 
E0781 
1 
P9022 
P9021 
1 
P9037 
P9035 
1 
M0223 
G0463 
1 
P9022 
P9039 
1 
P9037 
P9039 
1 
M0243 
M0245 
1 
P9032 
P9010 
1 
P9037 
P9073 
1 
M0244 
E0781 
1 
P9032 
P9011 
1 
P9038 
P9010 
1 
M0244 
G0463 
1 
P9032 
P9016 
1 
P9038 
P9011 
1 
M0246 
E0781 
1 
P9032 
P9019 
1 
P9038 
P9016 
1 
M0246 
G0463 
1 
P9032 
P9020 
1 
P9038 
P9019 
1 
P3000 
G0380 
1 
P9032 
P9021 
1 
P9038 
P9020 
1 
P3000 
G0381 
1 
P9032 
P9022 
1 
P9038 
P9021 
1 
P3000 
G0382 
1 
P9032 
P9031 
1 
P9038 
P9022 
1 
P3000 
G0383 
1 
P9032 
P9034 
1 
P9038 
P9031 
1 
P3000 
G0384 
1 
P9032 
P9035 
1 
P9038 
P9034 
1 
P3000 
G0406 
1 
P9032 
P9039 
1 
P9038 
P9035 
1 
P3000 
G0407 
1 
P9032 
P9073 
1 
P9038 
P9039 
1 
P3000 
G0408 
1 
P9033 
P9010 
1 
P9038 
P9073 
1 
P3000 
G0425 
1 
P9033 
P9011 
1 
P9039 
P9010 
1 
P3000 
G0426 
1 
P9033 
P9016 
1 
P9039 
P9016 
1 
P3000 
G0427 
1 
P9033 
P9019 
1 
P9039 
P9021 
1 
P3000 
G0463 
1 
P9033 
P9020 
1 
P9040 
P9010 
1 
P3000 
G0508 
1 
P9033 
P9021 
1 
P9040 
P9011 
1 
P3000 
G0509 
1 
P9033 
P9022 
1 
P9040 
P9016 
1 
P3001 
G0123 
0 
P9033 
P9031 
1 
P9040 
P9019 
1 
P3001 
G0141 
0 
P9033 
P9034 
1 
P9040 
P9020 
1 
P3001 
G0143 
0 
P9033 
P9035 
1 
P9040 
P9021 
1 
P3001 
G0144 
0 
P9033 
P9039 
1 
P9040 
P9022 
1 
P3001 
G0145 
0 
P9033 
P9073 
1 
P9040 
P9031 
1 
P3001 
G0147 
0 
P9034 
P9073 
1 
P9040 
P9034 
1 
P3001 
G0148 
0 
P9036 
P9010 
1 
P9040 
P9035 
1 
P3001 
G0380 
1 
P9036 
P9011 
1 
P9040 
P9039 
1 
P3001 
G0381 
1 
P9036 
P9016 
1 
P9040 
P9073 
1 
P3001 
G0382 
1 
P9036 
P9019 
1 
P9603 
P9604 
1 
P3001 
G0383 
1 
P9036 
P9020 
1 
P9612 
P9615 
0 
P3001 
G0384 
1 
P9036 
P9021 
1 
Q0091 
G0181 
1 
P3001 
G0406 
1 
P9036 
P9022 
1 
Q0091 
G0182 
1 
P3001 
G0407 
1 
P9036 
P9031 
1 
Q0091 
G0380 
1 
P3001 
G0408 
1 
P9036 
P9034 
1 
Q0091 
G0381 
1 
P3001 
G0425 
1 
P9036 
P9035 
1 
Q0091 
G0382 
1 
P3001 
G0426 
1 
P9036 
P9039 
1 
Q0091 
G0383 
1 
P3001 
G0427 
1 
P9036 
P9073 
1 
Q0091 
G0384 
1 
P3001 
G0463 
1 
P9037 
P9010 
1 
Q0091 
G0406 
1 
P3001 
G0508 
1 
P9037 
P9011 
1 
Q0091 
G0407 
1 
615 
Q0091 - U0003 
Appendix G Column 1 and Column 2 Correct Coding Edits 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Modifier 
00091 
G0408 
1 
09951 
09959 
0 
09962 
09966 
1 
I 
00091 
G0425 
1 
09951 
09964 
0 
09962 
09967 
1 
00091 
G0426 
1 
09958 
09951 
0 
09963 
09951 
0 
00091 
G0427 
1 
09958 
09959 
0 
09963 
09958 
1 
00091 
G0463 
1 
09958 
09964 
0 
09963 
09959 
0 
00091 
G0508 
1 
09958 
09965 
1 
09963 
09960 
1 
00091 
G0509 
1 
09958 
09966 
1 
09963 
09961 
1 
00243 
00245 
1 
09958 
09967 
1 
09963 
09962 
1 
01004 
01005 
1 
09959 
09964 
0 
09963 
09964 
0 
02035 
02034 
0 
09960 
09951 
0 
09963 
09965 
1 
02035 
02036 
0 
09960 
09958 
1 
09963 
09966 
1 
02035 
02037 
0 
09960 
09959 
0 
09963 
09967 
1 
02035 
02038 
0 
09960 
09964 
0 
09965 
09951 
0 
02035 
02039 
0 
09960 
09965 
1 
09965 
09959 
0 
02036 
02034 
0 
09960 
09966 
1 
09965 
09964 
0 
02036 
02037 
0 
09960 
09967 
1 
09966 
09951 
0 
02036 
02038 
0 
09961 
09951 
0 
09966 
09959 
0 
02036 
02039 
0 
09961 
09958 
1 
09966 
09964 
0 
02037 
02034 
0 
09961 
09959 
0 
09966 
09965 
1 
02037 
02038 
0 
09961 
09960 
1 
09967 
09951 
0 
02037 
02039 
0 
09961 
09964 
0 
09967 
09959 
0 
02038 
02034 
0 
09961 
09965 
1 
09967 
09964 
0 
02038 
02039 
0 
09961 
09966 
1 
09967 
09965 
1 
02039 
02034 
0 
09961 
09967 
1 
09967 
09966 
1 
02043 
G0380 
1 
09962 
09951 
0 
R0075 
R0070 
1 
02043 
G0381 
1 
09962 
09958 
1 
U0001 
U0002 
0 
02043 
G0382 
1 
09962 
09959 
0 
U0001 
U0003 
0 
02043 
G0383 
1 
09962 
09960 
1 
U0001 
U0004 
0 
02043 
G0384 
1 
09962 
09961 
1 
U0002 
U0003 
0 
02043 
G0463 
1 
09962 
09964 
0 
U0002 
U0004 
0 
02043 
G0471 
1 
Q9962 
09965 
1 
U0003 
U0004 
0 
616 
Appendix H General Correct Coding Policies 
Disclaimer: The information contained in this appendix was the most current information from the CMS website at the time of printing. 
For the most up-to-date information, visit www.cms.gov. 
CHAPTER XII 
SUPPLEMENTAL SERVICES 
HCPCS LEVEL II CODES A0000 - V9999 FOR NATIONAL CORRECT CODING INITIATIVE POLICY 
MANUAL FOR MEDICARE SERVICES 
Current Procedural Terminology (CPT®) codes, descriptions and other data only are copyright 2023 American Medical 
Association. All rights reserved. 
CPT® is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. 
Applicable FARS/DFARS Restrictions Apply to Government Use. 
Fee schedules, relative value units, conversion factors, and/or related components aren't assigned by the AMA, aren't part of 
CPT®, and the AMA isn't recommending their use. The AMA doesn't directly or indirectly practice medicine or dispense medical 
services. The AMA assumes no liability for the data contained or not contained herein CMS issues the Hospital Outpatient 
Prospective Payment System (OPPS) and Ambulatory Surgical Center (ASC) Payment System. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Chapter XII .................................................................................................................................................................................... 618 
Supplemental Services 
HCPCS Level II Codes .................................................................................................................................................................. 618 
A. Introduction ............................................................................................................................................................................... 618 
B. Evaluation & Management (E&M) Services .............................................................................................................................. 618 
C. NCCI Procedure-to-Procedure (PTP) Edit Specific Issues ....................................................................................................... 618 
D. Medically Unlikely Edits (MUEs) ............................................................................................................................................... 621 
E. General Policy Statements ........................................................................................................................................................ 622 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
617 
•
• 
Chapter XII 
Supplemental Services 
HCPCS Level II Codes A0000-V9999 
A. Introduction
The principles of correct coding discussed in Chapter I apply 
to Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) 
Level II codes. Several general guidelines are repeated in this 
chapter. However, those general guidelines from Chapter I not 
discussed in this chapter are nonetheless applicable. 
Physicians shall report the Healthcare Common Procedure 
Coding System/Current Procedural Terminology (HCPCS/ 
CPT®) code that describes the procedure performed to the 
greatest specificity possible. A HCPCS/CPT® code shall 
be reported only if all services described by the code are 
performed. A physician shall not report multiple HCPCS/CPT® 
codes if a single HCPCS/CPT® code exists that describes the 
services. This type of unbundling is incorrect coding. 
HCPCS/CPT® codes include all services usually performed 
as part of the procedure as a standard of medical/surgical 
practice. A physician shall not separately report these services 
simply because HCPCS/CPT® codes exist for them. 
Specific issues unique to HCPCS Level II codes are clarified in 
this chapter. 
The HCPCS Level II codes are alpha-numeric codes 
developed by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
(CMS) as a complementary coding system to the "CPT® 
Manual." These codes describe physician and non-physician 
services not included in the "CPT® Manual," supplies, drugs, 
durable medical equipment, ambulance services, etc. The 
correct coding edits and policy statements that follow address 
those HCPCS Level II codes that are reported to Medicare 
Administrative Contractors (MACs) for Part B services. 
B. Evaluation & Management (E&M) Services
Medicare Global Surgery Rules define the rules for reporting 
Evaluation & Management (E&M) services with procedures 
covered by these rules. This section summarizes some of the 
rules. 
All procedures on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule are 
assigned a global period of 000, 010, 090, XXX, YYY, ZZZ, or 
MMM. The global concept does not apply to XXX procedures.
The global period for YYY procedures is defined by the MAC.
All procedures with a global period of ZZZ are related to 
another procedure, and the applicable global period for the 
ZZZ code is determined by the related procedure. Procedures
with a global period of MMM are maternity procedures.
Since National Correct Coding Initiative (NCCI) Procedure-to­
Procedure (PTP) edits are applied to same day services by the 
same provider/supplier to the same beneficiary, certain Global 
Surgery Rules are applicable to the NCC! program. An E&M 
service is separately reportable on the same date of service 
as a procedure with a global period of 000, 010, or 090 days 
under limited circumstances. 
If a procedure has a global period of 090 days, it is defined as 
a major surgical procedure. If an E&M service is performed 
on the same date of service as a major surgical procedure 
to decide whether to perform this surgical procedure, the 
E&M service is separately reportable with modifier 57. Other 
preoperative E&M services on the same date of service as a 
major surgical procedure are included in the global payment 
618 
Appendix H General Correct Coding Policies 
for the procedure and are not separately reportable. The NCCI 
program does not contain edits based on this rule because 
MACs have separate edits. 
If a procedure has a global period of 000 or 01 O days, it 
is defined as a minor surgical procedure. In general, E&M 
services on the same date of service as the minor surgical 
procedure are included in the payment for the procedure. The 
decision to perform a minor surgical procedure is included in 
the payment for the minor surgical procedure and shall not be 
reported separately as an E&M service. However, a significant 
and separately identifiable E&M service unrelated to the 
decision to perform the minor surgical procedure is separately 
reportable with modifier 25. 
The E&M service and minor surgical procedure do not require 
different diagnoses. If a minor surgical procedure is performed 
on a new patient, the same rules for reporting E&M services 
apply. The fact that the patient is "new" to the provider/supplier 
is not sufficient alone to justify reporting an E&M service on the 
same date of service as a minor surgical procedure. The NCC! 
program contains many, but not all, possible edits based on 
these principles. 
For major and minor surgical procedures, postoperative E&M 
services related to recovery from the surgical procedure during 
the postoperative period are included in the global surgical 
package as are E&M services related to complications of the 
surgery. Postoperative visits unrelated to the diagnosis for 
which the surgical procedure was performed unless related 
to a complication of surgery may be reported separately 
on the same day as a surgical procedure with modifier 24 
("Unrelated Evaluation and Management Service by the Same 
Physician or Other Qualified Health Care Professional During 
a Postoperative Period"). 
Procedures with a global surgery indicator of "XXX" are not 
covered by these rules. Many of these "XXX" procedures are 
performed by physicians and have inherent pre-procedure, 
intra- procedure, and post-procedure work usually performed 
each time the procedure is completed. This work shall not be 
reported as a separate E&M code. Other "XXX" procedures 
are not usually performed by a physician and have no 
physician work relative value units associated with them. A 
provider/supplier shall not report a separate E&M code with 
these procedures for the supervision of others performing the 
procedure or for the interpretation of the procedure. 
With most "XXX" procedures, the physician may, however, 
perform a significant and separately identifiable E&M service 
that is above and beyond the usual pre- and post-operative 
work of the procedure on the same date of service which 
may be reported by appending modifier 25 to the E&M code. 
This E&M service may be related to the same diagnosis 
necessitating performance of the "XXX" procedure but cannot 
include any work inherent in the "XXX" procedure, supervision 
of others performing the "XXX" procedure, or time for 
interpreting the result of the "XXX" procedure. 
C. NCC/ Procedure-to-Procedure (PTP) Edit Specific
Issues
1.
HCPCS code Q0091 (Screening Papanicolaou smear;
obtaining, preparing and conveyance of cervical or 
vaginal smear to laboratory) describes the services
necessary to procure and transport a pap smear
specimen to the laboratory. If an E&M service is
performed at the same patient encounter solely for
the purpose of performing a screening pap smear, the 
E&M service is not separately reportable. However, 
if a significant, separately identifiable E&M service is 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix H General Correct Coding Policies 
performed to evaluate other medical problems, the 
screening pap smear and the E&M service may be 
reported separately. Modifier 25 should be appended 
to the E&M CPT® code indicating that a significant, 
separately identifiable E&M service was rendered. 
2.
HCPCS code G0101 (Cervical or vaginal cancer
screening; pelvic and clinical breast examination)
may be reported with E&M services under certain
circumstances. If a Medicare covered reasonable and
medically necessary E&M service requires breast and/
or pelvic examination, HCPCS code G0101 shall not be 
additionally reported. However, if the Medicare covered
reasonable and medically necessary E&M service and
the screening service, G0101, are unrelated to one
another, both HCPCS code G0101 and the E&M service
may be reported appending modifier 25 to the E&M
service CPT® code. Use of modifier 25 indicates that
the E&M service is significant and separately identifiable
from the screening service, G0101.
3.
HCPCS code G0102 (Prostate cancer screening; digital
rectal examination) is not separately payable with an 
E&M code (e.g., CPT®/HCPCS codes 99202-99499,
G0463, G0466- G0470, G0438, G0439). CMS published
this policy in the "Federal Register", November 2, 1999,
Page 59414 as follows:
"As stated in the July 1999 proposed rule, a digital rectal
exam (DRE) is a very quick and simple examination
taking only a few seconds. We believe it is rarely the
sole reason for a physician encounter and is usually
part of an E/M encounter. In those instances when it is
the only service furnished or it is furnished as part of an
otherwise non-covered service, we will pay separately for
code G0102. In those instances when it is furnished on
the same day as a covered E/M service, we believe it is 
appropriate to bundle it into the payment for the covered
E/M encounter."
4. Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging requires
use of a radiopharmaceutical diagnostic imaging agent.
HCPCS codes A9555 (Rubidium Rb-82 ... 60 millicuries)
and A9526 (Nitrogen N-13 ammonia . ..40 millicuries) may
only be reported with PET scan CPT ® codes 78491 and
78492. HCPCS code A9552 (Fluorodeoxyglucose F-18
FOG, 45 millicuries) may only be reported with PET scan
CPT® codes 78459, 78608, and 78811-78816.
5. HCPCS code A9512 (Technetium Tc-99m
pertechnetate, diagnostic, per millicurie) describes a
radiopharmaceutical used for nuclear medicine studies.
Technetium Tc- 99m pertechnetate is also a component
of other Technetium Tc-99m radiopharmaceuticals
with separate AXXXX codes. Code A9512 shall not
be reported with other AXXXX radiopharmaceuticals
containing Technetium Tc-99m for a single nuclear
medicine study. However, if 2 separate nuclear medicine
studies are performed on the same date of service, 1
with the radiopharmaceutical described by HCPCS code
A9512 and 1 with another AXXXX radiopharmaceutical
labeled with Technetium Tc-99m, both codes may
be reported using an NCCl-associated modifier.
HCPCS codes A9500, A9540, and A9541 describe
radiopharmaceuticals labeled with Technetium Tc-99m
that may be used for separate nuclear medicine studies
on the same date of service as a nuclear medicine study
using the radiopharmaceutical described by HCPCS
code A9512.
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
6.
The NCCI program contains (PTP) edits that bundle
some radiopharmaceutical codes into nuclear medicine
procedure codes. These code pairs represent
radiopharmaceuticals that should not be reported with
the nuclear medicine procedure since it is inappropriate
to use that radiopharmaceutical for that procedure. In
some situations where a patient has 2 nuclear medicine
procedures performed on the same date of service,
the radiopharmaceutical used for 1 procedure may
be incompatible with the second nuclear medicine
procedure. In this circumstance, it may be appropriate
to report the radiopharmaceutical with modifiers 59 or -
X{EPSU}.
7.
HCPCS code A4220 describes a refill kit for an
implantable pump. It shall not be reported separately
with CPT® codes 95990 (Refilling and maintenance of
implantable pump ... , spinal ... or brain ... when performed)
or 95991 (Refilling and maintenance of implantable
pump, spinal ... or brain ... requiring skill of physician or
other qualified health care professional) since Medicare
payment for these 2 CPT ® codes includes the refill kit.
Similarly, HCPCS code A4220 shall not be reported
separately with CPT® codes 62369 (Electronic analysis
of programmable, implanted pump for intrathecal or
epidural drug infusion (includes evaluation of reservoir
status, alarm status, drug prescription status); with
reprogramming and refill) or 62370 (Electronic analysis
of programmable, implanted pump for intrathecal or
epidural drug infusion (includes evaluation of reservoir
status, alarm status, drug prescription status); with
reprogramming and refill (requiring skill of a physician or
other qualified health care professional)) since Medicare
payment for these 2 CPT® codes includes the refill kit.
8.
HCPCS code E0781 describes an ambulatory infusion
pump used by a patient for infusions outside the
physician office or clinic. It is a misuse of this code to
report the infusion pump typically used in the physician
office or clinic.
9. HCPCS codes G0422 and G0423 (Intensive cardiac
rehabilitation ... per session) include the same services as
the cardiac rehabilitation CPT® codes 93797 and 93798,
but at a greater frequency. Intensive cardiac rehabilitation
may be reported with as many as 6 hourly sessions on
a single date of service. Cardiac rehabilitation services
include medical nutrition services to reduce cardiac
disease risk factors. Medical nutrition therapy (CPT®
codes 97802- 97804) shall not be reported separately for
the same patient encounter. However, medical nutrition
therapy services provided under the Medicare benefit for 
patients with diabetes or chronic renal failure performed at
a separate patient encounter on the same date of service
may be reported separately. The Medicare covered
medical nutrition service cannot be provided at the same
patient encounter as the cardiac rehabilitation service.
Physical or occupational therapy services performed
at the same patient encounter as cardiac rehabilitation
services are included in the cardiac rehabilitation
benefit and are not separately reportable. (CMS Final
Rule ("Federal Register," Vol. 74, No. 226, November
25, 2009, pages 61884-61885)). If physical therapy
or occupational therapy services are performed at a
separate, medically reasonable, and necessary patient
encounter on the same date of service as cardiac
rehabilitation services, both types of services may be
reported using an NCCI PTP-associated modifier.
619 
• . . 
•
10. Pulmonary rehabilitation (HCPCS/CPT® codes G0424, 
94625, 94626) includes therapeutic services and all
related monitoring services to improve respiratory
function. It requires measurement of patient outcome
which includes, but is not limited to, pulmonary function 
testing (e.g., pulmonary stress testing (CPT® code 
94618), cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPT® code 
94621 )). Pulmonary rehabilitation shall not be reported 
with HCPCS codes G0237 (Therapeutic procedures to
increase strength or endurance of respiratory muscles ...
(includes monitoring)), G0238 (Therapeutic procedures 
to improve respiratory function ... (includes monitoring)), 
or G0239 (Therapeutic procedures to improve respiratory 
function or increase strength ... (includes monitoring)). 
The services are mutually exclusive. The procedures 
described by HCPCS codes G0237-G0239 include 
therapeutic procedures as well as all related monitoring 
services, the latter including, but not limited to,
pulmonary function testing (e.g., pulmonary stress testing
(CPT® code 94618), cardiopulmonary exercise testing 
(CPT® code 94621 )). (HCPCS code G0424 was deleted
January 1, 2022.)
Physical or occupational therapy services performed at
the same patient encounter as pulmonary rehabilitation 
services are included in the pulmonary rehabilitation 
benefit and are not separately reportable. (CMS Final 
Rule ("Federal Register," Vol. 74, No. 226, November 
25, 2009, Pages 61884-61885)). If physical therapy 
or occupational therapy services are performed at a
separate, medically reasonable, and necessary patient 
encounter on the same date of service as pulmonary
rehabilitation services, both types of services may 
be reported using an NCCI PTP-associated modifier. 
Similarly, physical, and occupational therapy services 
are not separately reportable with therapeutic pulmonary 
procedures for the same patient encounter. 
Medical nutrition therapy services (CPT® codes 97802-
97804) performed at the same patient encounter as a
pulmonary rehabilitation or pulmonary therapeutic service
are included in the pulmonary rehabilitation or pulmonary
therapeutic service and are not separately reportable. 
The Medicare program provides a medical nutrition 
therapy benefit to beneficiaries for medical nutrition
therapy related to diabetes mellitus or renal disease. If a
physician provides a Medicare- covered medical nutrition
service to a beneficiary with diabetes mellitus or renal 
disease on the same date of service as a pulmonary 
rehabilitation or pulmonary therapeutic service but at a
separate patient encounter, the medical nutrition therapy 
service may be separately reportable with an NCCl­
associated modifier. The Medicare-covered medical 
nutrition service cannot be provided at the same patient
encounter as the pulmonary rehabilitation or pulmonary
therapeutic service.
11. Presumptive drug testing may be reported with CPT®
codes 80305-80307. These codes differ based on the
level of complexity of the testing methodology. Only one
code from this code range may be reported per date of 
service. 
620 
Definitive drug testing may be reported with HCPCS 
codes G0480-G0483. These codes differ based on the
number of drug classes including metabolites tested.
HCPCS code G0659 defining a different type of definitive 
drug testing was added. Only one code from this group of 
codes may be reported per date of service. 
,, 
Appendix H General Correct Coding Policies 
12. In accordance with code descriptor changes for HCPCS
codes G0416 effective January 1, 2015, CMS requires
that surgical pathology, including gross and microscopic
examination, of any and all submitted prostate needle
biopsy specimens from a single patient be reported with 
one unit of service of HCPCS code G0416 rather than 
CPT® code 88305. 
Instructions for HCPCS codes G0416-G0419 in this
Manual have undergone changes from year to year. 
For historical purposes, the prior instructions may be
found at the NCCI Medicare Webpage. (CPT® codes 
G0416-G0419 were deleted January 1, 2015)
13. Blood products are described by HCPCS Level II
P codes. If a P code describes an irradiated blood
product, CPT® code 86945 (Irradiation of blood product,
each unit) shall not be reported separately since the
P code includes irradiation of the blood product. If a P 
code describes a CMV negative blood product, CPT®
codes 86644 and/or 86645 (CMV antibody) shall not
be reported separately for that blood product since the 
P code includes the CMV antibody testing. If a P code 
describes a deglycerolized blood product, CPT® codes 
86930 (Frozen blood, each unit; freezing (includes 
preparation)), 86931 (Frozen blood, each unit; thawing),
and/or 86932 (Frozen blood, each unit; freezing 
(includes preparation) and thawing) shall not be reported 
separately since the P code includes the freezing and 
thawing processes. If a P code describes a pooled blood
product, CPT® code 86965 (Pooling of platelets or other
blood products) shall not be reported separately since
the P code includes the pooling of the blood products.
If the P code describes a "frozen" plasma product, 
CPT® code 86927 (Fresh frozen plasma, thawing, each 
unit) shall not be reported separately since the P code 
includes the thawing process.
14. HCPCS codes G0396 and G0397 describe alcohol and/
or substance (other than tobacco) abuse structured
assessment and intervention services. These codes
shall not be reported separately with an E&M, psychiatric 
diagnostic, or psychotherapy service code for the 
same work/time. If the E&M, psychiatric diagnostic,
or psychotherapy service would normally include
assessment and/or intervention of alcohol or substance
abuse based on the patient's clinical presentation,
HCPCS G0396 or G0397 shall not be additionally
reported. If a provider/supplier reports either of these
G codes with an E&M, psychiatric diagnostic, or
psychotherapy code using an NCCI PTP-associated
modifier, the physician is certifying that the G code
service is a distinct and separate service performed 
during a separate time period (not necessarily a
separate patient encounter) than the E&M, psychiatric
diagnostic, or psychotherapy service and is a service
that is not included in the E&M, psychiatric diagnostic,
or psychotherapy service based on the clinical reason 
for the E&M, psychiatric diagnostic, or psychotherapy 
service. 
CPT® codes 99408 and 99409 describe services which
are similar to those described by HCPCS codes G0396
and G0397 but are "screening" services which are
not covered under the Medicare program. The same
principles apply to separate reporting of E&M services
with other screening, intervention, or counseling service
HCPCS Level II codes (e.g., G0442 (Annual alcohol
misuse screening, 15 minutes), G0443 (Brief face-to-face
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix H General Correct Coding Policies 
behavioral counseling for alcohol misuse, 15 minutes), 
and G0444 (Annual depression screening, 15 minutes). 
If an E&M, psychiatric diagnostic, or psychotherapy 
service is related to a problem which would normally 
require evaluation and management duplicative of the 
HCPCS Level II code, the HCPCS Level II code is not 
separately reportable. For example, if a patient presents 
with symptoms suggestive of depression, the provider/ 
supplier shall not report G0444 in addition to the E&M, 
psychiatric diagnostic, or psychotherapy service code. 
The time and work effort devoted to the HCPCS Level II 
code screening, intervention, or counseling service must 
be distinct and separate from the time and work of the 
E&M, psychiatric diagnostic, or psychotherapy service. 
Both services may occur at the same patient encounter. 
15. HCPCS code G0269 describes placement of an
occlusive device into a venous or arterial access site 
after an open or percutaneous vascular procedure.
Since this code is status "B" on the Medicare Physician
Fee Schedule Database, payment for this service is
included in the payment for the vascular procedure.
Under the Outpatient Prospective Payment System
(OPPS), HCPCS code G0269 has a payment status
indicator of "N," indicating that payment is packaged into
the payment for other services paid. Providers/suppliers
reporting services under Medicare's hospital OPPS
should report all services in accordance with appropriate
Medicare "Internet-Only Manual (IOM)" instructions.
16. HCPCS code V2790 (Amniotic membrane for surgical
reconstruction, per procedure) shall not be reported
separately with CPT® codes 65778 (Placement of
amniotic membrane on the ocular surface; without
sutures) or 65779 (Placement of amniotic membrane on 
the ocular surface; single layer, sutured) since Medicare
payment for these 2 CPT® codes includes the amniotic
membrane.
17. HCPCS code G0515 (Development of cognitive skills to
improve ... each 15 minutes) was implemented January
1, 2018. It has the same code descriptor as CPT® 
code 97127, which was implemented January 1, 2018.
All NCCI PTP and MUE issues that were relevant to
CPT® code 97127 are also similarly relevant to HCPCS
code G0515. CPT® codes 97129 and 97130 were
implemented January 1, 2020 and have similar code
descriptors as CPT® 97127. All NCCI PTP and MUE
issues that were relevant to CPT® code 97127 are also
similarly relevant to CPT® codes 97129 and 97130.
(CPT® code 97532 was deleted January 1, 2018.
HCPCS code G0515 was deleted on January 1, 2020.
CPT® code 97127 was deleted January 1, 2020.)
D. Medically Unlikely Edits (MUEs)
1.
Medically Unlikely Edits (MUEs) are described in Chapter
I, Section V. 
2.
Providers/suppliers should be cautious about reporting
services on multiple lines of a claim using modifiers
to bypass MUEs. The MUE values are set so that
such occurrences should be uncommon. If a provider/
supplier does this frequently for any HCPCS/CPT® code,
the provider/supplier may be coding units of service
(UOS) incorrectly. The provider/supplier may consider
contacting their national healthcare organization or
the national medical/surgical society whose members
commonly perform the procedure to clarify the correct
reporting of UOS.
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
3.
The MUE values of HCPCS Level II codes for
discontinued drugs are generally "O."
4.
The MUE value of HCPCS Level II codes describing
compounded inhalation drugs is "0," because
compounded drugs are generally not FDA approved. The
CMS "IOM" Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter
15, Section 50.4.1 requires that claims processing
contractors only pay for FDA-approved drugs unless
CMS issues other instructions.
5. HCPCS code J0171 (Injection, adrenalin, epinephrine,
0.1 mg) may be reported incorrectly. A 1 ml ampule of
adrenalin/epinephrine contains 1.0 mg of adrenalin/
epinephrine in a 1:1,000 solution. However, a 10 ml
prefilled syringe with a 1: 10,000 solution of adrenalin/
epinephrine also contains only 1.0 mg of adrenalin/
epinephrine. Thus, a physician must recognize that
1 O UOS for HCPCS code J0171 correspond to a 1 ml
ampule or 10 ml of a prefilled syringe (1:10,000
(0.1 mg/ml) solution).
6.
There are 2 HCPCS Level II codes describing
injectable dexamethasone. HCPCS code J1094
(Injection, dexamethasone acetate, 1 mg) is no longer
manufactured and has an MUE value of "0." HCPCS
code J 1100 (Injection, dexamethasone sodium
phosphate, 1 mg) is currently available. When billing for
dexamethasone, providers/suppliers should be careful
to report the correct formulation with the correct HCPCS
code.
7. If a physician uses more than 999 USP units of the
product described by J3471 (Injection, hyaluronidase,
ovine, preservative free, per 1 USP unit (up to 999 USP
units)), the provider/supplier may report HCPCS code
J3471 on more than 1 line of a claim appending modifier
59 or XU to additional claim lines.
8.
The MUE values for practitioner services for oral
immunosuppressive, oral anti- cancer, and oral anti­
emetic drugs are set at "O." Practitioners providing
these medications to patients must bill the Durable
Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative Contractors
(DME MACs), rather than the Part A/Part B Medicare
Administrative Contractors (A/B MACs), using the
National Drug Codes (NDC). A/B MACs do not pay codes
for these oral medications when submitted on practitioner
claims.
The MUE values for outpatient hospital services are
based on the amount of drug that might be administered
to a patient on a single date of service. Facilities may not
report to the A/B MAC more than a one-day supply of
any of these drugs for a single date of service. Outpatient
hospital facilities may submit claims to DME MACs for a
multiple-day supply of these drugs provided on a single
date of service.
9. If a HCPCS Level II drug code descriptor defines the unit
of service as "per dose," only one unit of service may
be reported per drug administration procedure even if
more than the usual amount of drug is administered. For
example, HCPCS code J7321 (Hyaluronan or derivative
Hyalgan, Supartz or Visco-3, for intra-articular injection,
per dose) describes a drug that may be injected into
the knee joint. Only one unit of service may be reported
for injection of the drug into each knee joint, even if the
amount of injected drug exceeds the usual amount of
drug injected.
621 
10. Beginning January 1, 2017, presumptive drug testing 
may be reported with CPT® codes 80305-80307. These 
codes differ based on the level of complexity of the 
testing methodology. Only one code from this code range
may be reported per date of service.
Beginning January 1, 2016, definitive drug testing may 
be reported with HCPCS codes G0480- G0483. These 
codes are reported "per day" and shall not be reported
with more than one unit of service per day. Definitive drug 
testing HCPCS code G0659 was implemented January 
1, 2017. This code is reported "per day" and shall not be 
reported with more than one unit of service per day. 
11. HCPCS codes Q9951 and Q9965-Q9967 describe 
low osmolar contrast material with different iodine 
concentrations. The appropriate code to report is based
on the iodine concentration in the contrast material
administered. The MUE value for HCPCS code 09951
(Low osmolar contrast material, 400 or greater mg/
ml iodine concentration, per ml) is "O." When this MUE 
value was established, no low osmolar contrast material
products with iodine concentration of 400 mg iodine
or greater per ml were identified. HCPCS code 09951
is often incorrectly reported for low osmolar contrast
material products with lower iodine concentrations.
Similarly, HCPCS codes Q9958-Q9964 describe
high osmolar contrast material with different iodine
concentrations. The appropriate code to report is based
on the iodine concentration in the contrast material
administered. 
12. HCPCS code K0462 (Temporary replacement for patient 
owned equipment being repaired, any type) may be 
reported with one unit of service for each item of patient­
owned equipment that is being repaired. Component 
parts of a patient-owned piece of equipment being 
repaired shall not be reported separately. For example, 
if a patient-owned CPAP (continuous positive airway 
pressure) blower requires repair, the provider/supplier
may report one unit of service for K0462. The provider/
supplier shall not report an additional unit of service
for an integral humidifier even if it also requires repair. 
Additionally, the provider/supplier shall not report an 
additional unit of service for a detachable humidifier 
unless it also requires repair at the same time. 
13. Generally, only one unit of service for an item of durable 
medical equipment (DME) (e.g., oxygen concentrator, 
wheelchair base) may be paid on a single date of 
service. Medicare does not allow payment for backup 
or duplicate durable medical equipment. More than one 
unit of service may be paid on a single date of service 
for accessories and supplies related to DME when
appropriate. Prosthetics and orthotics may also be paid
with more than one unit of service on a single date of 
service when appropriate.
14. HCPCS code P9604 describes a prorated, one-way
travel allowance for collection of medically necessary
laboratory specimen(s) drawn from a home bound or
nursing home bound patient. A round trip should be
reported with modifier LR and 2 unit of service rather 
than 2 UOS. The reported UOS shall be prorated for 
multiple patients drawn at the same address and for
stops at the homes of Medicare and non-Medicare 
patients, as described in the "Medicare IOM", Publication
100-04, Chapter 16 (Laboratory Services), Section 60.2.
622 
Appendix H General Correct Coding Policies 
15. The CMS "IOM" (Publication 100-04 "Medicare
Claims Processing Manual", Chapter 12 (Physicians/
Nonphysician Practitioners), Section 40.7.B. and Chapter
4 (Part B Hospital (Including Inpatient Hospital Part B and
OPPS)), Section 20.6.2 requires that practitioners and
outpatient hospitals report bilateral surgical procedures
with modifier 50 and one unit of service on a single claim
line unless the code descriptor defines the procedure as
"bilateral." If the code descriptor defines the procedure
as a "bilateral" procedure, it shall be reported with one
unit of service without modifier 50. The MUE values for 
surgical procedures that may be performed bilaterally are
based on this reporting requirement. Since this reporting
requirement does not apply to an ambulatory surgical
center (ASC), an ASC should report a bilateral surgical
procedure on 2 claim lines, each with 1 unit of service
using modifiers LT and RT on different claim lines. This
reporting requirement does not apply to non-surgical
diagnostic procedures.
16. HCPCS codes G0406-G0408 describe follow-up inpatient
consultation services via telehealth, and HCPCS codes
G0425-G0427 describe emergency or initial inpatient
telehealth consultation services via telehealth. These
codes shall not be reported by a practitioner on the same
date of service that the practitioner reports a face-to-face
E&M code. These codes are used to report telehealth
services that, if performed with the patient physically 
present, would be reported with corresponding CPT® 
codes. 
Since follow-up inpatient consultation services with a
patient present are reported using per diem CPT® codes
99231-99233, HCPCS codes G0406-G0408 may only be 
reported with a single unit of service per day. 
Since initial inpatient consultation services with a patient
present are reported using per diem CPT® codes
99231-99233, HCPCS codes G0425-G0427 may only
be reported with a single unit of service per day when
reporting inpatient telehealth consultation services.
However, if HCPCS codes G0425-G0427 are used to
report emergency department services, reporting rules
are comparable to CPT® codes 99281-99285.
17. HCPCS code G9157 (Transesophageal doppler
measurement of cardiac output (including probe
placement, image acquisition, and interpretation per
course of treatment) for monitoring purposes) describes
a diagnostic procedure reportable only for ventilated
patients in the Intensive Care Unit or operative patients
with a need for intra-operative fluid optimization.
Reporting this code is limited to an inpatient hospital
place of service. HCPCS code G9157 shall be reported
no more than once per course of treatment. 
E. General Policy Statements
1.
The MUE values and NCCI PTP edits are based on
services provided by the same provider/supplier to the
same beneficiary on the same date of service. Physicians
shall not inconvenience beneficiaries nor increase risks
to beneficiaries by performing services on different dates 
of service to avoid MUE or NCCI PTP edits.
2.
In this Manual, many policies are described using the
term "physician." Unless indicated differently the use of
this term does not restrict the policies to physicians only
but applies to all practitioners, hospitals, providers, or 
suppliers eligible to bill the relevant HCPCS/CPT® codes 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix H General Correct Coding Policies 
pursuant to applicable portions of the Social Security Act 
(SSA) of 1965, the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), 
and Medicare rules. In some sections of this Manual, 
the term "physician" would not include some of these 
entities because specific rules do not apply to them. For 
example, Anesthesia Rules [e.g., CMS "Internet-Only 
(IOM)", Publication 100-04 ("Medicare Claims Processing 
Manual"), Chapter 12 (Physician/Nonphysician 
Practitioners), Section 50(Payment for Anesthesiology 
Services)] and Global Surgery Rules [e.g., CMS 
"Internet-Only Manual", Publication 100-04 ("Medicare 
Claims Processing Manual"), Chapter 12 (Physician/ 
Nonphysician Practitioners), Section 40 (Surgeons and 
Global Surgery)] do not apply to hospitals. 
3.
Providers/suppliers reporting services under Medicare's 
hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS) 
shall report all services in accordance with appropriate 
Medicare "Internet-Only Manual (IOM)" instructions. 
4.
In 2010, the "CPT® Manual" modified the numbering of
codes so that the sequence of codes as they appear in
the "CPT® Manual" does not necessarily correspond to a
sequential numbering of codes. In the "National Correct 
Coding Initiative Policy Manual for Medicare Services", 
use of a numerical range of codes reflects all codes
that numerically fall within the range regardless of their
sequential order in the "CPT® Manual".
5.
With few exceptions, the payment for a surgical
procedure includes payment for dressings, supplies, 
and local anesthesia. These items are not separately 
reportable under their own HCPCS/CPT® codes. Wound
closures using adhesive strips or tape alone are not
separately reportable. In the absence of an operative 
procedure, these types of wound closures are included 
in an E&M service. Under limited circumstances,
wound closure using tissue adhesive may be reported 
separately. If a practitioner uses a tissue adhesive alone 
for a wound closure, it may be reported separately with 
HCPCS code G0168 (Wound closure utilizing tissue 
adhesive(s) only). If a practitioner uses tissue adhesive
in addition to staples or sutures to close a wound,
HCPCS code G0168 is not separately reportable but is 
included in the tissue repair. Under the OPPS, HCPCS 
code G0168 is not recognized and paid. Facilities may 
report wound closure using sutures, staples, or tissue
adhesives, singly or in combination with each other, with
the appropriate CPT® code in the "Repair (Closure)" 
section of the "CPT® Manual". 
6.
With limited exceptions, Medicare Anesthesia Rules 
prevent separate payment for anesthesia for a medical
or surgical procedure when provided by the physician
performing the procedure. The provider/supplier shall
not report CPT® codes 00100-01999, 62320-62327, or 
64400-64530 for anesthesia for a procedure. Additionally, 
the provider/supplier shall not unbundle the anesthesia 
procedure and report component codes individually. For
example, introduction of a needle or intracatheter into
a vein (CPT® code 36000), venipuncture (CPT® code
36410), drug administration (e.g., CPT® codes 96360-
96379) or cardiac assessment (e.g., CPT® codes 93000-
93010, 93040-93042) shall not be reported when these 
procedures are related to the delivery of an anesthetic 
agent.
Medicare generally allows separate reporting for 
moderate conscious sedation services (CPT® codes
99151-99153) when provided by the same physician
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
performing a medical or surgical procedure except when 
the anesthesia service is bundled into the procedure, 
e.g., radiation treatment management.
Under Medicare Global Surgery Rules, drug 
administration services (e.g., CPT® codes 96360- 96379) 
are not separately reportable by the physician performing 
a procedure for drug administration services related to 
the procedure. 
Under the OPPS, drug administration services related 
to operative procedures are included in the associated 
procedural HCPCS/CPT® codes. Examples of such drug 
administration services include, but are not limited to, 
anesthesia (local or other), hydration, and medications 
such as anxiolytics or antibiotics. Providers/suppliers 
shall not report CPT® codes 96360-96379 for these 
services. 
Medicare Global Surgery Rules prevent separate 
payment for postoperative pain management when 
provided by the physician performing an operative 
procedure. CPT® codes 36000, 36410, 62320-62327, 
64400-64450 describe some services that may be 
used for postoperative pain management. The services 
described by these codes may be reported by the 
physician performing the operative procedure only if 
provided for purposes unrelated to the postoperative pain 
management, the operative procedure, or anesthesia for 
the procedure. 
If a physician performing an operative procedure 
provides a drug administration service (CPT® codes 
96360-96379) for a purpose unrelated to anesthesia, 
intra-operative care, or post-procedure pain 
management, the drug administration service (CPT® 
codes 96360-96379) may be reported with an NCCI 
PTP-associated modifier if performed in a non-facility site 
of service. 
7. The Medicare global surgery package includes insertion 
of urinary catheters. CPT® codes 51701-51703 (Insertion 
of bladder catheters) shall not be reported with any 
procedure with a global period of 000, 010, or 090 days, 
nor with some procedures with a global period of MMM.
8.
Closure/repair of a surgical incision is included in the
global surgical package except as noted below. Wound
repair CPT® codes 12001-13153 shall not be reported 
separately to describe closure of surgical incisions for 
procedures with global surgery indicators of 000, 010, 
090, or MMM. Simple, intermediate, and complex wound 
repair codes may be reported with Mohs surgery (CPT® 
codes 17311-17315). Intermediate and complex repair
codes may be reported with excision of benign lesions
(CPT® codes 11401-11406, 11421-11426, 11441-11471)
and excision of malignant lesions (CPT® codes 11600-
11646). Wound repair codes (CPT® codes 12001-13153) 
not be reported with excisions of benign lesions with an 
excised diameter of 0.5 cm or less (CPT® codes 11400, 
11 420, 11440). 
9. Control of bleeding during an operative procedure is an 
integral component of a surgical procedure and is not
separately reportable. Postoperative control of bleeding
not requiring return to the operating room is included
in the global surgical package and is not separately
reportable. However, control of bleeding requiring return 
to the operating room in the postoperative period is 
separately reportable using modifier 78. 
623 
10. For more information regarding biopsies, see Chapter I,
Section A, Introduction. 
11. Most NCCI PTP edits for codes describing procedures
that may be performed on bilateral organs or structures
(e.g., arms, eyes, kidneys, lungs) allow use of NCCI 
PTP-associated modifiers (modifier indicator of
"1 ") because the 2 codes of the code pair edit may
be reported if the 2 procedures are performed on 
contralateral organs or structures. Most of these code
pairs should not be reported with NCCI PTP-associated
modifiers when the corresponding procedures are
performed on the ipsilateral organ or structure unless
there is a specific coding rationale to bypass the edit.
The existence of the NCCI PTP edit indicates that the 2
codes generally should not be reported together unless
the 2 corresponding procedures are performed at 2
separate patient encounters or 2 separate anatomic 
sites. However, if the corresponding procedures 
are performed at the same patient encounter and in 
contiguous structures, NCCI PTP-associated modifiers 
should generally not be used. 
12. If fluoroscopy is performed during an endoscopic 
procedure, it is integral to the procedure. This principle
applies to all endoscopic procedures including, but not
limited to, laparoscopy, hysteroscopy, thoracoscopy,
arthroscopy, esophagoscopy, colonoscopy, other
GI endoscopy, laryngoscopy, bronchoscopy, and
cystourethroscopy.
13. If the code descriptor for a HCPCS/CPT® code, "CPT® 
Manual" instruction for a code, or the CMS instruction for 
a code indicates that the procedure includes radiologic
guidance, a provider/supplier shall not separately report
a HCPCS/CPT® code for radiologic guidance including,
but not limited to, fluoroscopy, ultrasound, computed 
tomography, or magnetic resonance imaging codes. If
the physician performs an additional procedure on the 
same date of service for which a radiologic guidance or 
imaging code may be separately reported, the radiologic
guidance or imaging code appropriate for that additional
procedure may be reported separately with an NCCI 
PTP-associated modifier if appropriate.
14. CPT® code 3659 1 describes "collection of blood
specimen from a completely implantable venous access
device." CPT® code 36592 describes "collection of blood
specimen using an established central or peripheral 
catheter, venous, not otherwise specified." These codes
shall not be reported with any service other than a
laboratory service. That is, these codes may be reported 
if the only non-laboratory service performed is the
collection of a blood specimen by one of these methods.
15. CPT® code 96523 describes "irrigation of implanted
venous access ... " This code may be reported only if no 
other service is reported for the patient encounter. 
624 
Appendix H General Correct Coding Policies 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Disclaimer: This appendix includes relevant sections of the CMS Medicare and Medicaid Publication 100 information but is not 
an all-inclusive document. CMS updates policies and procedures frequently. The information contained here was the most 
up-to-date information on the CMS website at the time of printing. For more recent updates, visit the CMS website. 
100-1, Chapter-1, 10.1
Hospital Insurance (Part A) for Inpatient Hospital, 
Hospice, Home Health and Skilled Nursing 
Facility (SNF) Services - A Brief Description 
Hospital insurance is designed to help patients defray the 
expenses incurred by hospitalization and related care. In 
addition to inpatient hospital benefits, hospital insurance 
covers post hospital extended care in SNFs and post hospital 
care furnished by a home health agency in the patient's home. 
Blood clotting factors, for hemophilia patients competent 
to use such factors to control bleeding without medical or 
other supervision, and items related to the administration 
of such factors, are also a Part A benefit for beneficiaries 
in a covered Part A stay. The purpose of these additional 
benefits is to provide continued treatment after hospitalization 
and to encourage the appropriate use of more economical 
alternatives to inpatient hospital care. Program payments for 
services rendered to beneficiaries by providers (i.e., hospitals, 
SNFs, and home health agencies) are generally made to the 
provider. In each benefit period, payment may be made for up 
to 90 inpatient hospital days, and 100 days of post hospital 
extended care services. 
Hospices also provide Part A hospital insurance services such 
as short-term inpatient care. In order to be eligible to elect 
hospice care under Medicare, an individual must be entitled to 
Part A of Medicare and be certified as being terminally ill. An 
individual is considered to be terminally ill if the individual has 
a medical prognosis that his or her life expectancy is 6 months 
or less if the illness runs its normal course. 
The Part A benefit categories of inpatient hospital services 
and SNF services are each subject to separate and mutually 
exclusive day limits, so that the use of benefit days under 
one of these benefits does not affect the number of benefit 
days that remain available under the other. Accordingly, the 
90 days of inpatient hospital benefits (plus 60 nonrenewable 
lifetime reserve days -- see Pub. 100-02, Medicare Benefit 
Policy Manual, chapter 5) that are available to a beneficiary in 
a hospital do not count against the 100 days of post hospital 
extended care benefits that are available in a SNF, and vice­
versa. 
100-1, Chapter-3, 20.5
Blood Deductibles (Part A and Part B) 
Program payment may not be made for the first 3 pints of 
whole blood or equivalent units of packed red cells received 
under Part A and Part B combined in a calendar year. 
However, blood processing (e.g., administration, storage) is 
not subject to the deductible. 
The blood deductibles are in addition to any other applicable 
deductible and coinsurance amounts for which the patient is 
responsible. 
The deductible applies only to the first 3 pints of blood 
furnished in a calendar year, even if more than one provider 
furnished blood. 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-1, Chapter-3, 20.5.2
Part B Blood Deductible 
Blood is furnished on an outpatient basis or is subject to the 
Part B blood deductible and is counted toward the combined 
limit. It should be noted that payment for blood may be made to 
the hospital under Part B only for blood furnished in an outpatient 
setting. Blood is not covered for inpatient Part B services. 
100-1, Chapter-3, 20.5.3
Items Subject to Blood Deductibles 
The blood deductibles apply only to whole blood and packed 
red cells. The term whole blood means human blood from 
which none of the liquid or cellular components have been 
removed. Where packed red cells are furnished, a unit 
of packed red cells is considered equivalent to a pint of 
whole blood. Other components of blood such as platelets, 
fibrinogen, plasma, gamma globulin, and serum albumin 
are not subject to the blood deductible. However, these 
components of blood are covered as biological. 
Refer to Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, 
chapter 4, §231 regarding billing for blood and blood products 
under the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System 
(OPPS). 
100-1, Chapter-3, 30
Outpatient Mental Health Treatment Limitation 
Regardless of the actual expenses a beneficiary incurs in 
connection with the treatment of mental, psychoneurotic, and 
personality disorders while the beneficiary is not an inpatient 
of a hospital at the time such expenses are incurred, the 
amount of those expenses that may be recognized for Part B 
deductible and payment purposes is limited to 62.5 percent 
of the Medicare approved amount for those services. The 
limitation is called the outpatient mental health treatment 
limitation (the limitation). The 62.5 percent limitation has been 
in place since the inception of the Medicare Part B program 
and it will remain effective at this percentage amount until 
January 1, 2010. However, effective January 1, 2010, through 
January 1, 2014, the limitation will be phased out as follows: 
•
January 1, 2010 -December 31, 2011, the limitation 
percentage is 68.75%.
(Medicare pays 55% and the patient pays 45%).
•
January 1, 2012 -December 31, 2012, the limitation
percentage is 75% 
(Medicare pays 60% and the patient pays 40%).
•
January 1, 2013 -December 31, 2013, the limitation
percentage is 81.25%. 
(Medicare pays 65% and the patient pays 35%).
•
January 1, 2014 -onward, the limitation percentage is 
100% 
(Medicare pays 80% and the patient pays 20%). 
For additional details concerning the outpatient mental 
health treatment limitation, please see the Medicare Claims 
Processing Manual, Publication 100-04, chapter 9, section 60 
and chapter 12, section 210. 
625 
100-1, Chapter-5, 90.2
Laboratory Defined 
Laboratory means a facility for the biological, microbiological, 
serological, chemical, immuno-hematological, hematological, 
biophysical, cytological, pathological, or other examination 
of materials derived from the human body for the purpose 
of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention, or 
treatment of any disease or impairment of, or the assessment 
of the health of, human beings. These examinations also 
include procedures to determine, measure, or otherwise 
describe the presence or absence of various substances or 
organisms in the body. Facilities only collecting or preparing 
specimens (or both) or only serving as a mailing service and 
not performing testing are not considered laboratories. 
100-2, Chapter-1, 10
Covered Inpatient Hospital Services Covered 
Under Part A 
Patients covered under hospital insurance are entitled to 
have payment made on their behalf for inpatient hospital 
services. (Inpatient hospital services do not include extended 
care services provided by hospitals pursuant to swing bed 
approvals. See Pub. 100-02, Chapter 8, §10.3, "Hospital 
Providers of Extended Care Services."). However, both 
inpatient hospital and inpatient SNF benefits are provided 
under Part A - Hospital Insurance Benefits for the Aged and 
Disabled, ofTitle XVIII). 
Additional information concerning the following topics can be 
found in the following chapters of this manual: 
Benefit Period is found in Chapter 3 
Counting Inpatient Days is found in Chapter 3 
Lifetime reserve days is found in Chapter 5 
Related payment information is housed in the Provider 
Reimbursement Manual 
Blood must be furnished on a day which counts as a day of 
inpatient hospital services to be covered as a Part A service and 
to count toward the blood deductible. Thus, blood is not covered 
under Part A and does not count toward the Part A blood 
deductible when furnished to an inpatient after the inpatient 
has exhausted all benefit days in a benefit period, or where the 
individual has elected not to use lifetime reserve days. However, 
where the patient is discharged on their first day of entitlement 
or on the hospital's first day of participation, the hospital is 
permitted to submit a billing form with no accommodation 
charge, but with ancillary charges including blood. 
The records for all Medicare hospital inpatient discharges 
are maintained in CMS for statistical analysis and use in 
determiing future Prospective Payment System (PPS) 
D1agnos1s Related Group (DRG) classifications and rates. 
Non-PPS hospitals do not pay for noncovered services 
generally excluded from coverage in the Medicare Program. 
This may result in denial of a part of the billed charges or in 
denial of the entire admission, depending upon circumstance. 
In PPS hospitals, the following are also possible: 
1. In appropriately admitted cases where a noncovered
rocedure was performed, denied services may result
In payment of a different DRG (i.e., one which excludes
payment for the noncovered procedure); or
2. In appropriately admitted cases that become cost outlier
cases, denied services may lead to denial of some or all
of an outlier payment.
626 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
The following examples illustrate this principle. If care 
is noncovered because a patient does not need to be 
hospitalized, the A/B MAC Part A denies the admission and 
makes no Part A (i.e., PPS) payment unless paid under 
limitation on liability. Under limitation on liability, Medicare 
payment may be made when the provider and the beneficiary 
were not aware the services were not necessary and could 
not reasonably be expected to know that the services were 
not necessary. For detailed instructions, see Pub. 100-04, 
Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Chapter 30,"Limitation 
on Liability" section 20. If a patient is appropriately hospitalized 
but receives (beyond routine services) only noncovered care, 
the admission is denied. 
NOTE: The A/B MAC Part A does not deny an admission that 
includes covered care, even if noncovered care was also 
rendered. Under PPS, Medicare assumes that it is paying for 
only the covered care rendered whenever covered services 
needed to treat and/or diagnose the illness were in fact 
provided. 
If a noncovered procedure is provided along with covered 
nonroutine care, a DRG change rather than an admission 
denial might occur. If noncovered procedures are elevating 
costs into the cost outlier category, outlier payment is denied in 
whole or in part. 
When the hospital is included in PPS, most of the subsequent 
discussion regarding coverage of inpatient hospital 
services is relevant only in the context of determining the 
appropriateness of admissions, which DRG, if any, to pay, and 
the appropriateness of payment for any outlier cases. 
If a patient receives items or services in excess of, or more 
expensive than, those for which payment can be made, 
payment is made only for the covered items or services or 
for only the appropriate prospective payment amount. This 
provision applies not only to inpatient services, but also to all 
hospital services under Parts A and B of the program. If the 
items or services were requested by the patient, the hospital 
may charge him or her the difference between the amount 
customarily charged for the services requested and the 
amount customarily charged for covered services. 
An inpatient is a person who has been admitted to a hospital 
for bed occupancy for purposes of receiving inpatient 
hospital services (see §10.2 below). Generally, a patient 
is considered an inpatient if formally admitted as inpatient 
with the expectation that he or she will require hospital care 
that is expected to span at least two midnights and occupy 
a bed even though it later develops that the patient can be 
discharged or transferred to another hospital and not actually 
use a hospital bed overnight. 
The physician or other practitioner responsible for a patient's 
care at the hospital is also responsible for deciding whether 
the patient should be admitted as an inpatient. Physicians 
should use the expectation of the patient to require hospital 
care that spans at least two midnights period as a benchmark 
i.e., they should order admission for patients who are expected
to require a hospital stay that crosses two midnights and
the medical record supports that reasonable expectation.
However, the decision to admit a patient is a complex medical 
Judgment which can be made only after the physician has 
considered a number of factors, including the patient's medical
history and current medical needs, the types of facilities
available to inpatients and to outpatients, the hospital's by­
laws and admissions policies, and the relative appropriateness 
of treatment in each setting. Factors to be considered when 
making the decision to admit include such things as: 
CP! is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
•
The severity of the signs and symptoms exhibited by the
patient;
The medical predictability of something adverse
happening to the patient;
•
The need for diagnostic studies that appropriately are
outpatient services (i.e., their performance does not
ordinarily require the patient to remain at the hospital
for 24 hours or more) to assist in assessing whether the
patient should be admitted; and
•
The availability of diagnostic procedures at the time when
and at the location where the patient presents.
Admissions of particular patients are not covered or 
noncovered solely on the basis of the length of time the patient 
actually spends in the hospital. In certain specific situations 
coverage of services on an inpatient or outpatient basis is 
determined by the following rules: 
Minor Surgery or Other Treatment - When patients with 
known diagnoses enter a hospital for a specific minor surgical 
procedure or other treatment that is expected to keep them 
in the hospital for only a few hours (less than 24), they are 
considered outpatients for coverage purposes regardless of: 
the hour they came to the hospital, whether they used a bed, 
and whether they remained in the hospital past midnight. 
Renal Dialysis - Renal dialysis treatments are usually 
covered only as outpatient services but may under certain 
circumstances be covered as inpatient services depending 
on the patient's condition. Patients staying at home, who are 
ambulatory, whose conditions are stable and who come to 
the hospital for routine chronic dialysis treatments, and not for 
a diagnostic workup or a change in therapy, are considered 
outpatients. On the other hand, patients undergoing short-term 
dialysis until their kidneys recover from an acute illness (acute 
dialysis), or persons with borderline renal failure who develop 
acute renal failure every time they have an illness and require 
dialysis (episodic dialysis) are usually inpatients. A patient 
may begin dialysis as an inpatient and then progress to an 
outpatient status. 
Under original Medicare, the Quality Improvement 
Organization (QIO), for each hospital is responsible for 
deciding, during review of inpatient admissions on a case-by­
case basis, whether the admission was medically necessary. 
Medicare law authorizes the QIO to make these judgments, 
and the judgments are binding for purposes of Medicare 
coverage. In making these judgments, however, QIOs consider 
only the medical evidence which was available to the physician 
at the time an admission decision had to be made. They do not 
take into account other information (e.g., test results) which 
became available only after admission, except in cases where 
considering the post-admission information would support a 
finding that an admission was medically necessary. 
Refer to chapters 4 and 7 of Pub. 100-10, Quality Improvement 
Organization Manual with regard to initial determinations for 
these services. The QIO will review the swing bed services in 
these PPS hospitals as well. 
NOTE: When patients requiring extended care services are 
admitted to beds in a hospital, they are considered inpatients 
of the hospital. In such cases, the services furnished in 
the hospital will not be considered extended care services, 
and payment may not be made under the program for such 
services unless the services are extended care services 
furnished pursuant to a swing bed agreement granted to the 
hospital by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
CP-r-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-2, Chapter-1, 10.1.4
Charges for Deluxe Private Room 
Beneficiaries found to need a private room (either because 
they need isolation for medical reasons or because they need 
immediate admission when no other accommodations are 
available) may be assigned to any of the provider's private 
rooms. They do not have the right to insist on the private 
room of their choice, but their preferences should be given the 
same consideration as if they were paying all provider charges 
themselves. The program does not, under any circumstances, 
pay for personal comfort items. Thus, the program does not 
pay for deluxe accommodations and/or services. These would 
include a suite, or a room substantially more spacious than is 
required for treatment, or specially equipped or decorated, or 
serviced for the comfort and convenience of persons willing 
to pay a differential for such amenities. If the beneficiary (or 
representative) requests such deluxe accommodations, the 
provider should advise that there will be a charge, not covered 
by Medicare, of a specified amount per day (not exceeding 
the differential defined in the next sentence); and may charge 
the beneficiary that amount for each day he/she occupies the 
deluxe accommodations. The maximum amount the provider 
may charge the beneficiary for such accommodations is the 
differential between the most prevalent private room rate at 
the time of admission and the customary charge for the room 
occupied. Beneficiaries may not be charged this differential 
if they (or their representative) do not request the deluxe 
accommodations. 
The beneficiary may not be charged such a differential in 
private room rates if that differential is based on factors other 
than personal comfort items. Such factors might include 
differences between older and newer wings, proximity to 
lounge, elevators or nursing stations, desirable view, etc. 
Such rooms are standard 1-bed units and not deluxe rooms 
for purposes of these instructions, even though the provider 
may call them deluxe and have a higher customary charge 
for them. No additional charge may be imposed upon the 
beneficiary who is assigned to a room that may be somewhat 
more desirable because of these factors. 
100-2, Chapter-1, 40
Supplies, Appliances, and Equipment 
Supplies, appliances, and equipment, which are ordinarily 
furnished by the hospital for the care and treatment of the 
beneficiary solely during the inpatient hospital stay, are 
covered inpatient hospital services. 
Under certain circumstances, supplies, appliances, and 
equipment used during the beneficiary's inpatient stay are 
covered under Part A even though the supplies, appliances 
and equipment leave the hospital with the patient upon 
discharge. These are circumstances in which it would be 
unreasonable or impossible from a medical standpoint to limit 
the patient's use of the item to the periods during which the 
individual is an inpatient. Examples of items covered under this 
rule are: 
Items permanently installed in or attached to the patient's 
body while an inpatient, such as cardiac valves, cardiac 
pacemakers, and artificial limbs; and 
Items which are temporarily installed in or attached to 
the patient's body while an inpatient, and which are also 
necessary to permit or facilitate the patient's release from 
the hospital, such as tracheotomy or drainage tubes. 
627 
Hospital "admission packs" containing primarily toilet articles, 
such as soap, toothbrushes, toothpaste, and combs, are 
covered under Part A if routinely furnished by the hospital to all 
its inpatients. If not routinely furnished to all patients, the packs 
are not covered. In that situation, the hospital may charge 
beneficiaries for the pack, but only if they request it with 
knowledge of what they are requesting and what the charge to 
them will be. 
Supplies, appliances, and equipment furnished to an inpatient 
for use only outside the hospital are not, in general, covered 
as inpatient hospital services. However, a temporary or 
disposable item, which is medically necessary to permit 
or facilitate the patient's departure from the hospital and is 
required until the patient can obtain a continuing supply, is 
covered as an inpatient hospital service. 
Oxygen furnished to hospital inpatients is covered under Part A 
as an inpatient supply. 
100-2, Chapter-1, 70
Inpatient Services in Connection With Dental 
Services 
When a patient is hospitalized for a dental procedure and the 
dentist's service is covered under Part B, the inpatient hospital 
services furnished are covered under Part A. For example, 
both the professional services of the dentist and the inpatient 
hospital expenses are covered when the Dentist reduces a jaw 
fracture of an inpatient at a participating hospital. In addition, 
hospital inpatient services, which are necessary because of 
the patient's underlying medical condition and clinical status or 
the severity of a non covered dental procedure, are covered. 
When the hospital services are covered, all ancillary services 
such as X-rays, administration of anaesthesia, use of the 
operating room, etc., are covered. 
Regardless of whether the inpatient hospital services are 
covered, the medical services of physicians furnished in 
connection with non covered dental services are not covered. 
The services of an anaesthesiologist, radiologist, or pathologist 
whose services are performed in connection with the care, 
treatment, filling, removal, or replacement of teeth or structures 
directly supporting teeth are not covered. 
100-2, Chapter-6, 10
Medical and Other Health Services Furnished to 
Inpatients of Participating Hospitals 
Payment may be made under Part B for physician services 
and for the nonphysician medical and other health services 
as provided in this section when furnished by a participating 
hospital (either directly or under arrangements) to an inpatient 
of the hospital, but only if payment for these services cannot 
be _made under Part A. This policy applies to all hospitals and 
cntIcal access hospitals (CAHs) participating in Medicare, 
1nclud1ng those paid under a prospective payment system or 
alternative payment methodology such as State cost control 
systems, and to emergency hospital services furnished by 
nonparticipating hospitals. In this section, the term "hospital" 
includes all hospitals and CAHs, regardless of payment 
methodology, unless otherwise specified. 
For services to be covered under Part A or Part B, a hospital 
must furnish nonphysician services to its inpatients directly 
or under arrangements (see chapter 16, § 170 of this manual 
"Inpatient Hospital or SNF Services Not Delivered Directly 
628 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
or Under Arrangement by the Provider"). A nonphysician 
service is one which does not meet the criteria defining 
physicians' services specifically provided for in regulation at 
42 CFR 415.102. Services "incident to" physicians' services 
(except for the services of nurse anesthetists employed by 
anesthesiologists) are nonphysician services for purposes of 
this provision. 
100-2, Chapter-6, 20.6
Outpatient Observation Services 
A. Outpatient Observation Services Defined
Observation care is a well-defined set of specific, clinically 
appropriate services, which include ongoing short term 
treatment, assessment, and reassessment before a decision 
can be made regarding whether patients will require further 
treatment as hospital inpatients or if they are able to be 
discharged from the hospital. Observation services are 
commonly ordered for patients who present to the emergency 
department and who then require a significant period of 
treatment or monitoring in order to make a decision concerning 
their admission or discharge. 
Observation services are covered only when provided by the 
order of a physician or another individual authorized by State 
licensure law and hospital staff bylaws to admit patients to the 
hospital or to order outpatient tests. In the majority of cases, 
the decision whether to discharge a patient from the hospital 
following resolution of the reason for the observation care 
or to admit the patient as an inpatient can be made in less 
than 48 hours, usually in less than 24 hours. In only rare and 
exceptional cases do reasonable and necessary outpatient 
observation services span more than 48 hours. 
Hospitals may bill for patients who are directly referred to the 
hospital for outpatient observation services. A direct referral 
occurs when a physician in the community refers a patient to 
the hospital for outpatient observation, bypassing the clinic 
or emergency department (ED) visit. Effective for services 
furnished on or after January 1, 2003, hospitals may bill for 
patients directly referred for observation services. 
See, Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, 
chapter 4, section 290, at http://www.cms.hhs.gov/manuals/ 
downloads/clm104c04.pdf for billing and payment instructions 
for outpatient observation services. 
Future updates will be issued in a Recurring Update 
Notification. 
B. Coverage of Outpatient Observation Services
When a physician orders that a patient receive observation 
care, the patient's status is that of an outpatient. The purpose 
of observation is to determine the need for further treatment or 
for inpatient admission. Thus, a patient receiving observation 
services may improve and be released, or be admitted as an 
inpatient (see Pub. 100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, 
Chapter 1, Section 10 "Covered Inpatient Hospital Services 
Covered Under Part A" at https://www.cms.gov/Regulations­
and-Guidance/Guidance/Manua1s/Downloads/bp102c01. 
pdf). For more information on correct reporting of observation 
services, see Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing 
Manual, chapter 4, section 290.2.2.) 
All hospital observation services, regardless of the duration 
of the observation care, that are medically reasonable and 
necessary are covered by Medicare. Observation services 
are reported using HCPCS code G0378 (Hospital observation 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
service, per hour). As of January 1, 2008, HCPCS code G0378 
for hourly observation services is assigned status indicator N, 
signifying that its payment is always packaged. No separate 
payment is made for observation services reported with 
HCPCS code G0378. In most circumstances, observation 
services are supportive and ancillary to the other separately 
payable services provided to a patient. Beginning January 1, 
2016, in certain circumstances when observation care is billed 
in conjunction with a clinic visit, Type A emergency department 
visit (Level 1 through 5), Type B emergency department visit 
(Level 1 through 5), critical care services, or direct referral for 
observation services as an integral part of a patient's extended 
encounter of care, comprehensive payment may be made for 
all services on the claim including, the entire extended care 
encounter when certain criteria are met. For information about 
billing and payment methodology for observation services in 
years prior to CY 2008, see Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims 
Processing Manual, Chapter 4, §§290.3-290.4. For information 
about payment for extended assessment and management 
under composite APCs and comprehensive APCs, see §290.5. 
Payment for all reasonable and necessary observation 
services is packaged into the payments for other separately 
payable services provided to the patient in the same 
encounter. Observation services packaged through 
assignment of status indicator N are covered OPPS services. 
Since the payment for these services is included in the APC 
payment for other separately payable services on the claim, 
hospitals must not bill Medicare beneficiaries directly for the 
packaged services. 
C. Services Not Covered by Medicare and Notification
to the Beneficiary
In making the determination whether an ABN can be used to 
shift liability to a beneficiary for the cost of non-covered items 
or services related to an encounter that includes observation 
care, the provider should follow a two-step process. First, 
the provider must decide whether the item or service meets 
either the definition of observation care or would be otherwise 
covered. If the item or service does not meet the definitional 
requirements of any Medicare-covered benefit under Part 
B, then the item or service is not covered by Medicare and 
an ABN is not required to shift the liability to the beneficiary. 
However, the provider may choose to provide voluntary 
notification for these items or services. 
Second, if the item or service meets the definition of 
observation services or would be otherwise covered, then 
the provider must decide whether the item or service is 
"reasonable and necessary" for the beneficiary on the occasion 
in question, or if the item or service exceeds any frequency 
limitation for the particular benefit or falls outside of a 
timeframe for receipt of a particular benefit. In these cases, the 
ABN would be used to shift the liability to the beneficiary (see 
Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual; Chapter 
30, "Financial Liability Protections," Section 20, at https:// 
www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Guidance/Manuals/ 
Downloads/clm104c30.pdf for information regarding Limitation 
On Liability (LOL) Under §1879 Where Medicare Claims Are 
Disallowed). 
If an ABN is not issued to the beneficiary, the provider may 
be held liable for the cost of the item or service unless the 
provider/supplier is able to demonstrate that they did not know 
and could not have reasonably been expected to know that 
Medicare would not pay for the item or service. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-2, Chapter-10, 10.2.2
Reasonableness of the Ambulance Trip 
Under the FS payment is made according to the level of 
medically necessary services actually furnished. That is, 
payment is based on the level of service furnished (provided 
they were medically necessary), not simply on the vehicle 
used. Even if a local government requires an ALS response 
for all calls, payment under the FS is made only for the level of 
service furnished, and then only when the service is medically 
necessary. 
100-2, Chapter-10, 10.3.3
Separately Payable Ambulance Transport Under 
Part B versus Patient Transportation that is 
Covered Under a Packaged Institutional Service 
Transportation of a beneficiary from his or her home, an 
accident scene, or any other point of origin is covered under 
Part B as an ambulance service only to the nearest hospital, 
critical access hospital (CAH}, or skilled nursing facility (SNF) 
that is capable of furnishing the required level and type of 
care for the beneficiary's illness or injury and only if medical 
necessity and other program coverage criteria are met. An 
ambulance transport from a SNF to the nearest supplier of 
medically necessary services not available at the SNF where 
the beneficiary is a resident and not in a covered Part A stay, 
including the return trip, is covered under Part B provided that 
the ambulance transportation was medically reasonable and 
necessary and all other coverage requirements are met. 
Medicare-covered ambulance services are paid either as 
separately billed services, in which case the entity furnishing 
the ambulance service bills Part B of the program, or as a 
packaged service, in which case the entity furnishing the 
ambulance service must seek payment from the provider who 
is responsible for the beneficiary's care. If either the origin or 
the destination of the ambulance transport is the beneficiary's 
home, then the ambulance transport is paid separately by 
Medicare Part B, and the entity that furnishes the ambulance 
transport may bill its A/B MAC (A) or (B) directly. If both 
the origin and destination of the ambulance transport are 
providers, e.g., a hospital, critical access hospital (CAH), 
skilled nursing facility (SNF), then responsibility for payment 
for the ambulance transport is determined in accordance with 
the following sequential criteria. 
NOTE: These criteria must be applied in sequence as a flow 
chart and not independently of one another. 
1. Provider Numbers:
If the Medicare-assigned provider numbers of the two
providers are different, then the ambulance service is
separately billable to the program. If the provider number
of both providers is the same, then consider criterion 2,
"campus".
2. Campus:
Following criterion 1, if the campuses of the two providers
(sharing the same provider numbers) are the same, then
the transport is not separately billable to the program.
In this case the provider is responsible for payment. If
the campuses of the two providers are different, then
consider criterion 3, "patient status." "Campus" means the
physical area immediately adjacent to the provider's main
buildings, other areas and structures that are not strictly
629 
contiguous to the main buildings, but are located within 
250 yards of the main buildings, and any of the other 
areas determined on an individual case basis by the CMS 
regional office to be part of the provider's campus. 
3. Patient Status: Inpatient vs. Outpatient
Following criteria 1 and 2, if the patient is an inpatient
at both providers (i.e., inpatient status both at the origin
and at the destination, providers sharing the same 
provider number but located on different campuses), 
then the transport is not separately billable. In this
case the provider is responsible for payment. All other
combinations (i.e., outpatient-to-inpatient, inpatient­
to-outpatient, outpatient-to-outpatient) are separately 
billable to the program. 
In the case where the point of origin is not a provider, Part A 
coverage is not available because, at the time the beneficiary 
is being transported, the beneficiary is not an inpatient of any 
provider paid under Part A of the program and ambulance 
services are excluded from the 3-day preadmission payment 
window. 
The transfer, i.e., the discharge of a beneficiary from one 
provider with a subsequent admission to another provider, is 
also payable as a Part B ambulance transport, provided all 
program coverage criteria are met, because, at the time that 
the beneficiary is in transit, the beneficiary is not a patient 
of either provider and not subject to either the inpatient 
preadmission payment window or outpatient payment 
100-2, Chapter-10, 20
Coverage Guidelines for Ambulance Service Claims 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
packaging requirements. This includes an outpatient transfer 
from a remote, off-campus emergency department (ER) to 
becoming an inpatient or outpatient at the main campus 
hospital, even if the ER is owned and operated by the hospital. 
Once a beneficiary is admitted to a hospital, CAH, or SNF, 
it may be necessary to transport the beneficiary to another 
hospital or other site temporarily for specialized care while 
the beneficiary maintains inpatient status with the original 
provider. This movement of the patient is considered "patient 
transportation" and is covered as an inpatient hospital or CAH 
service and as a SNF service when the SNF is furnishing it as 
a covered SNF service and payment is made under Part A for 
that service. (If the beneficiary is a resident of a SNF and must 
be transported by ambulance to receive dialysis or certain 
other high-end outpatient hospital services, the ambulance 
transport may be separately payable under Part B. Also, if the 
beneficiary is a SNF resident and not in a Part A covered stay 
and must be transported by ambulance to the nearest supplier 
of medically necessary services not available at the SNF, the 
ambulance transport, including the return trip, may be covered 
under Part B.) Because the service is covered and payable as 
a beneficiary transportation service under Part A, the service 
cannot be classified and paid for as an ambulance service 
under Part B. This includes intra-campus transfers between 
different departments of the same hospital, even where the 
departments are located in separate buildings. Such intra­
campus transfers are not separately payable under the Part B 
ambulance benefit. Such costs are accounted for in the same 
manner as the costs of such a transfer within a single building. 
Payment may be made for expenses incurred by a patient for ambulance service provided conditions I, 2, and 3 in the left-hand 
column have been met. The right-hand column indicates the documentation needed to establish that the condition has been met. 
NOTE: A patient's residence is the place where he or she makes his/her home and dwells permanently, or for an extended 
period of time. A skilled nursing facility is one, which is listed in the Directory of Medical Facilities as a participating SNF or as an 
institution which meets § 18610)(1) of the Act. 
Conditions 
Review Action 
1.
Patient was transported by an approved supplier of
1. Ambulance suppliers are explained in greater detail in
ambulance services. 
§10.1.3 
2. The patient was suffering from an illness or injury, which 
2. (a) The A/B MAC (A) or (B) presumes the requirement 
contraindicated transportation by other means. (§10.2) 
was met if the submitted documentation indicates that 
the patient: 
.
Was transported in an emergency situation, e.g., as a
result of an accident, injury or acute illness, or 
.
Needed to be restrained to prevent injury to the
beneficiary or others; or 
. Was unconscious or in shock; or 
.
Required oxygen or other emergency treatment during
transport to the nearest appropriate facility; or 
.
"Exhibits signs and symptoms of acute respiratory
distress or cardiac distress such as shortness of breath 
or chest pain; or" 
. Exhibits signs and symptoms that indicate the possibility
of acute stroke; or 
.
Had to remain immobile because of a fracture that had
not been set or the possibility of a fracture; or 
. Was experiencing severe hemorrhage; or
.
Could be moved only by stretcher; or 
.
Was bed-confined before and after the ambulance trip .
630 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
.,
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Conditions 
Review Action 
b.
In the absence of any of the conditions listed in (a) above additional
documentation should be obtained to establish medical need where
the evidence indicates the existence of the circumstances listed
below:
i.
Patient's condition would not ordinarily require
movement by stretcher, or
ii.
The individual was not admitted as a hospital
inpatient (except in accident cases), or
iii. The ambulance was used solely because other
means of transportation were unavailable, or
iv. The individual merely needed assistance in getting
from his room or home to a vehicle.
c. Where the information indicates a situation not listed in
2(a) or 2(b) above, refer the case to your supervisor.
3. The patient was transported from and to points listed
3.
Claims should show the ZIP Code of the point of pickup.
below.
a.
i. Condition met if trip began within the institution's service area as
a. From patient's residence (or other place where need
shown in the carrier's locality guide.
arose) to hospital or skilled nursing facility.
ii. Condition met where the trip began outside the institution's
service area if the institution was the nearest one with appropriate
facilities.
NOTE: A claim for ambulance service to a participating hospital or skilled nursing facility should not be denied on the grounds 
that there is a nearer nonparticipation institution having appropriate facilities. 
b.
Skilled nursing facility to a hospital or hospital to a skilled nursing
b. i. Condition met if the ZIP Code of the pickup point is within the 
facility.
service area of the destination as shown in the A/8 MAC (B)'s
locality guide. 
ii. Condition met where the ZIP Code of the pickup point is outside
the service area of the destination if the destination institution was
the nearest appropriate facility.
c. Hospital to hospital or skilled nursing facility to skilled
c.
Condition met if the discharging institution was not an appropriate
nursing facility.
facility and the admitting institution was the nearest appropriate
facility.
d. From a hospital or skilled nursing facility to patient's
d.
i. Condition met if patient's residence is within the institution's
residence.
service area as shown in the A/8 MAC (B)'s locality guide.
ii. Condition met where the patient's residence is outside the
institution's service area if the institution was the nearest
appropriate facility.
e.
Round trip for hospital or participating skilled nursing
e.
Condition met if the reasonable and necessary diagnostic or 
facility inpatients to the nearest hospital or nonhospital
therapeutic service required by patient's condition is not available at
treatment facility.
the institution where the beneficiary is an inpatient.
NOTE: Ambulance service to a physician's office or a physician- directed clinic is not covered. See § 10.3.8 above, where a stop 
is made at a physician's office en route to a hospital and §10.3.3 for additional exceptions.) 
4.
Ambulance services involving hospital admissions
4.
a. The foreign hospitalization has been determined to
in Canada or Mexico are covered (Medicare Claims
be covered; and 
Processing Manual, Chapter 1, "General Billing
b. The ambulance service meets the coverage
Requirements," § 10.1.3.) if the following conditions are
requirements set forth in §§10-10.3. If the foreign
met:
hospitalization has been determined to be covered on
the basis of emergency services (See the Medicare
Claims Processing Manual, Chapter 1, "General
Billing Requirements," § 10.1.3), the necessity
requirement (§10.2) and the destination requirement
(§10.3) are considered met.
5. The A/B MAC will make partial payment for otherwise
5 & 6 (a) From the pickup point to the nearest appropriate 
covered ambulance service, which exceeded limits defined
facility, or 
in item
5 & 6 (b) From the nearest appropriate facility to the 
6. The A/B MAC will base the payment on the amount
beneficiary's residence where he or she is being 
payable had the patient been transported:
returned home from a distant institution. 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
631 
100-2, Chapter-10, 30.1.1
Basic Life Support (BLS) 
Definition: BLS is transportation by ground ambulance 
vehicle (as defined in section 10.1, above) and the provision 
of medically necessary supplies and services (as defined in 
section 10.2, above), including BLS ambulance services as 
defined by the state. 
The ambulance vehicle must be staffed by at least two people 
who meet the requirements of the state and local laws where 
the services are being furnished, and at least one of the staff 
members must be certified at a minimum as an emergency 
medical technician-basic (EMT-Basic) by the state or local 
authority where the services are being furnished and be 
legally authorized to operate all lifesaving and life-sustaining 
equipment on board the vehicle. These laws may vary from 
state to state or within a state. 
Basic Life Support (BLS) - Emergency 
Definition: When medically necessary, the provision of BLS 
services, as specified above, in the context of an emergency 
response (as defined below). 
Advanced Life Support, Level 1 (ALS1) 
Definition: Advanced life support, level 1 (ALS1) is the 
transportation by ground ambulance vehicle (as defined in 
section 10.1, above) and the provision of medically necessary 
supplies and services (as defined in section 10.2, above) 
including the provision of an ALS assessment by ALS 
personnel or at least one ALS intervention. 
Advanced Life Support Assessment 
Definition: An ALS assessment is an assessment performed 
by an ALS crew as part of an emergency response (as defined 
below) that was necessary because the patient's reported 
condition at the time of dispatch was such that only an ALS 
crew was qualified to perform the assessment. An ALS 
assessment does not necessarily result in a determination 
that the patient requires an ALS level of service. In the case 
of an appropriately dispatched ALS Emergency service, as 
defined below, if the ALS crew completes an ALS Assessment, 
the services provided by the ambulance transportation 
service provider or supplier shall be covered at the ALS 
emergency level, regardless of whether the patient required 
ALS intervention services during the transport, provided that 
ambulance transportation itself was medically reasonable and 
necessary, as defined in section 10.2, above and all other 
coverage requirements are met. 
Advanced Life Support Intervention 
Definition: An ALS intervention is a procedure that is in 
accordance with state and local laws, required to be done 
by an emergency medical technician-intermediate (EMT 
Intermediate) or EMT-Paramedic. 
Application: An ALS intervention must be medically necessary 
to qualify as an intervention for payment for an ALS level of 
service. An ALS intervention applies only to ground transports. 
Advanced Life Support, Level 1 (ALS1) -
Emergency 
Definition: When medically necessary, the provision of ALS1 
services, as specified above, in the context of an emergency 
response, as defined below. 
632 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Advanced Life Support, Level 2 (ALS2) 
Definition: Advanced life support, level 2 (ALS2) is the 
transportation by ground ambulance vehicle and the provision 
of medically necessary supplies and services including (1) 
at least three separate administrations of one or more 
medications by intravenous (IV) push/bolus or by continuous 
infusion (excluding crystalloid fluids) or (2) ground ambulance 
transport, medically necessary supplies and services, and the 
provision of at least one of the ALS2 pr9cedures listed below: 
a. Manual defibrillation/cardioversion;
b. Endotracheal intubation;
c. Central venous line;
d.
Cardiac pacing;
e. Chest decompression;
f. 
Surgical airway; or 
g. lntraosseous line.
Application: Crystalloid fluids include but are not necessarily 
limited to 5 percent Dextrose in water (often referred to 
as DSW), Saline and Lactated Ringer's. To qualify for the 
ALS2 level of payment, medications must be administered 
intravenously. Medications that are administered by other 
means, for example: intramuscularly, subcutaneously, orally, 
sublingually, or nebulized do not support payment at the ALS2 
level rate. 
The IV medications are administered in standard doses as 
directed by local protocol or online medical direction. It is not 
appropriate to administer a medication in divided doses in 
order to meet the ALS2 level of payment. For example, if the 
local protocol for the treatment of supraventricular tachycardia 
(SVT) calls for a 6 mg dose of adenosine, the administration of 
three 2 mg doses in order to qualify for the ALS 2 level is not 
acceptable. 
The administration of an intravenous drug by infusion qualifies 
as one intravenous dose. For example, if a patient is being 
treated for atrial fibrillation in order to slow the ventricular rate 
with diltiazem and the patient requires two boluses of the drug 
followed by an infusion of diltiazem, then the infusion would 
be counted as the third intravenous administration and the 
transport would be billed as an ALS 2 level of service. 
The fractional administration of a single dose (for this purpose, 
meaning a "standard" or "protocol" dose) of a medication on 
three separate occasions does not qualify for ALS2 payment. 
In other words, the administering 1/3 of a qualifying dose 3 
times does not equate to three qualifying doses to support 
claiming ALS2-level care. For example, administering one­
third of a dose of X medication 3 times might= Y (where Y is a 
standard/protocol drug amount), but the same sequence does 
not equal 3 times Y. Thus, if 3 administrations of the same 
drug are required to claim ALS2 level care, each administration 
must be in accordance with local protocols; the run will not 
qualify at the ALS2 level on the basis of drug administration 
if that administration was not according to local protocol. The 
criterion of multiple administrations of the same drug requires 
that a suitable quantity of the drug be administered and that 
there be a suitable amount of time between administrations 
and that both are in accordance with standard medical practice 
guidelines. 
An example of a single dose of medication administered 
fractionally on three separate occasions that would not 
qualify for the ALS2 payment rate is the administration of a 
single 1 mg dose of IV Epinephrine in partial increments to 
treat an adult pulseless Ventricular TachycardiaNentricular 
CP'r is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Fibrillation (VF NT} patient. The American Heart Association 
(AHA), Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) protocol calls 
for Epinephrine to be administered in 1 mg increments every 
3 to 5 minutes. Therefore, administering IV Epinephrine in 
separate increments of 0.25 mg, 0.25 mg, and 0.50 mg (for a 
total of 1 mg) over the course of a single 3 to 5 minute episode 
would not qualify for the ALS2 level of payment. Conversely, 
administering three separate 1 mg doses of IV Epinephrine 
over the requisite protocol-based time period to a patient with 
unresolved VF/VT would qualify for an ALS2 level of service. 
NOTE: refer to and abide by your authorized protocols; AHA's 
ACLS protocols are referenced here only by way of widely 
recognized example. 
Another example that would not qualify for the ALS2 payment 
level is administering Adenosine in three 2 mg increments (for 
a total of 6 mg) in treating an adult patient with Paroxysmal 
Supraventricular Tachycardia (PSVT}. ACLS guidelines dictate 
treating PSVT with 6 mg of Adenosine by rapid intravenous 
push (IVP) over 1 to 2 seconds. Should the initial 6 mg dose 
not eliminate the PSVT within 1 to 2 minutes, guidelines dictate 
that another 12 mg of Adenosine IVP should be administered 
where the PSVT persists, followed by another 12 mg dose 
1 to 2 minutes later; for a total of 30 mg of Adenosine. 
Administering a total of 30 mg of Adenosine, involving three 
episodes of administration in a complete cycle of treatment as 
outlined above, would qualify for ALS2 payment. 
Endotracheal (ET) intubation (which includes intubating and/or 
monitoring/maintaining an ET tube inserted prior to transport) 
is a service that qualifies for the ALS2 level of payment. 
Therefore, it is not necessary to consider medications 
administered by ET tube to determine whether the ALS2 rate 
is payable. 
Advanced Life Support (ALS) Personnel 
Definition: ALS personnel are individuals trained to the level 
of the emergency medical technician-intermediate (EMT­
Intermediate) or paramedic. 
Specialty Care Transport (SCT) 
Definition: SCT is the interfacility transportation (as defined 
below) of a critically injured or ill beneficiary by a ground 
ambulance vehicle, including the provision of medically 
necessary supplies and services, at a level of service 
beyond the scope of the EMT-Paramedic. SCT is necessary 
when a beneficiary's condition requires ongoing care that 
must be furnished by one or more health professionals in 
an appropriate specialty area, for example, emergency or 
critical care nursing, emergency medicine, respiratory care, 
cardiovascular care, or an EMT-Paramedic with additional 
training. 
Application: SCT is necessary when a beneficiary's condition 
requires ongoing care that must be furnished by one or more 
health professionals in an appropriate specialty area. The 
EMT-Paramedic level of care is set by each state. Medically 
necessary care that is furnished at a level above the EMT­
Paramedic level of care may qualify as SCT. To be clear, 
if EMT-Paramedics - without specialty care certification or 
qualification - are permitted to furnish a given service in a 
state, then that service does not qualify for SCT. The phrase 
"EMT-Paramedic with additional training" recognizes that 
a state may permit a person who is not only certified as an 
EMT-Paramedic, but who also has successfully completed 
additional education as determined by the state in furnishing 
higher level medical services required by critically ill or injured 
patients, to furnish a level of service that otherwise would 
require a health professional in an appropriate specialty care 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
area (for example, a nurse) to provide. "Additional training" 
means the specific additional training that a state requires a 
paramedic to complete in order to qualify to furnish specialty 
care to a critically ill or injured patient during an SCT. 
Paramedic Intercept (Pl) 
Definition: Paramedic Intercept services are ALS services 
provided by an entity that does not provide the ambulance 
transport. This type of service is most often provided for an 
emergency ambulance transport in which a local volunteer 
ambulance that can provide only BLS level of service is 
dispatched to transport a patient. If the patient needs ALS 
services such as EKG monitoring, chest decompression, or 
IV therapy, another entity dispatches a paramedic to meet the 
BLS ambulance at the scene or once the ambulance is on the 
way to the hospital. The ALS paramedics then provide services 
to the patient. 
This tiered approach to life saving is cost effective in many 
areas because most volunteer ambulances do not charge for 
their services and one paramedic service can cover many 
communities. Prior to March 1, 1999, Medicare payment could 
be made for these services, but could not be made directly to 
the intercept service provider; rather, Medicare payment could 
be made only when the claim was submitted by the entity that 
actually furnished the ambulance transport. In those areas 
where state laws prohibited volunteer ambulances from billing 
Medicare and other health insurance, the intercept service 
could not receive payment for treating a Medicare beneficiary 
and was forced to bill the beneficiary for the entire service. 
Paramedic intercept services furnished on or after March 1, 
1999, are payable separate from the ambulance transport 
when all of the requirements in the following three conditions 
are met: 
i. 
The intercept service(s) is: 
Furnished in a rural area (as defined below); 
Furnished under a contract with one or more 
volunteer ambulance services; and, 
Medically necessary based on the condition of the 
beneficiary receiving the ambulance service. 
ii.
The volunteer ambulance service involved must: 
•
Meet Medicare's certification requirements for 
furnishing ambulance services; 
Furnish services only at the BLS level at the time of 
the intercept; and,
Be prohibited by state law from billing anyone for any 
service. 
iii. The entity furnishing the ALS paramedic intercept service 
must: 
Meet Medicare's certification requirements for 
furnishing ALS services, and, 
•
Bill all recipients who receive ALS paramedic intercept 
services from the entity, regardless of whether or not 
those recipients are Medicare beneficiaries.
For purposes of the paramedic intercept benefit, a rural area is 
an area that is designated as rural by a state law or regulation 
or that is located in a rural census tract of a metropolitan 
statistical area (as determined under the most recent version 
of the Goldsmith Modification). (The Goldsmith Modification is 
a methodology to identify small towns and rural areas within 
large metropolitan counties that are isolated from central areas 
by distance or other features). The current list of these areas is 
periodically published in the Federal Register. 
633 
See Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, 
Chapter 15, "Ambulance," §20.1.4 for payment of paramedic 
intercept services. 
Services in a Rural Area 
Definition: For purposes other than the paramedic intercept 
benefit (as defined above), services in a rural area are services 
that are furnished (1) in an area outside a Metropolitan 
Statistical Area (MSA); or, (2) an area identified as rural using 
the most recent version of the Goldsmith Modification even 
though the area is within an MSA. 
Emergency Response 
Definition: Emergency response is a BLS or ALS1 level of 
service that has been provided in immediate response to a 911 
call or the equivalent. An immediate response is one in which 
the ambulance provider/supplier begins as quickly as possible 
to take the steps necessary to respond to the call. 
The nature of an ambulance's response (whether emergency 
or not) does not independently establish or support medical 
necessity for an ambulance transport. Rather, Medicare 
coverage always depends on, among other things, whether 
the service(s) furnished is actually medically reasonable and 
necessary based on the patient's condition at the time of 
transport. 
Application: The phrase "911 call or the equivalent" is 
intended to establish the standard that the nature of the call 
at the time of dispatch is the determining factor. Regardless 
of the medium by which the call is made (e.g., a radio call 
could be appropriate) the call is of an emergent nature 
when, based on the information available to the dispatcher 
at the time of the call, it is reasonable for the dispatcher to 
issue an emergency dispatch in light of accepted, standard 
dispatch protocol. An emergency call need not come through 
911 even in areas where a 911 call system exists. However, 
the determination to respond emergently with a BLS or ALS 
ambulance must be in accord with the local 911 or equivalent 
service dispatch protocol. If the call came in directly to the 
ambulance provider/supplier, then the provider's/supplier's 
dispatch protocol and the dispatcher's actions must meet, at 
a minimum, the standards of the dispatch protocol of the local 
911 or equivalent service. In areas that do not have a local 911 
or equivalent service, the protocol and the dispatcher's actions 
must meet, at a minimum, the standards of the dispatch 
protocol in another similar jurisdiction within the state, or if 
there is no similar jurisdiction, then the standards of any other 
dispatch protocol within the state. Where the dispatch was 
inconsistent with this standard of protocol, including where no 
protocol was used, the beneficiary's condition (for example, 
symptoms) at the scene determines the appropriate level of 
payment. 
EMT-Intermediate 
Definition: EMT-Intermediate is an individual who is qualified, 
in accordance with state and local laws, as an EMT-Basic and 
who is also certified in accordance with state and local laws 
to perform essential advanced techniques and to administer a 
limited number of medications. 
EMT-Paramedic 
Definition: EMT-Paramedic possesses the qualifications of 
the EMT-Intermediate and, in accordance with state and local 
laws, has enhanced skills that include being able to administer 
additional interventions and medications. 
634 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
lnterfacility Transportation 
Definition: For purposes of SGT payment, an interfacility 
transportation is one in which the origin and destination are 
one of the following: a hospital or skilled nursing facility that 
participates in the Medicare program or a hospital-ased 
facility that meets Medicare's requirements for provider-based 
status. 
100-2, Chapter-12, 40.5
Respiratory Therapy Services 
A respiratory therapy plan of treatment is wholly established 
and signed by the referring physician before the respiratory 
therapist initiates the actual treatment. 
A. Definition
Respiratory therapy services include only those services 
that can be appropriately provided to CORF patients by a 
qualified respiratory therapist, as defined at 42CFR485.70 
0), under a physician-established respiratory therapy plan o 
treatment. The facility physician must be present in the facility 
for a sufficient time to provide, in accordance with accepted 
principles of medical practice, medical direction, medical 
care services and consultation. Respiratory therapy services 
include the physiological monitoring necessary to furnish 
these services. Payment for these services is bundled into the 
payment for respiratory therapy services and is not payable 
separately. Diagnostic and other medical services provided 
in the CORF setting are not considered CORF services, and 
therefore may not be included in a respiratory therapy plan of 
treatment because these are covered under separate benefit 
categories. 
The respiratory therapist assesses the patient to determine the 
appropriateness of pursed lip breathing activity and may check 
the patient's oxygen saturation level (via pulse oximetry). If 
appropriate, the respiratory therapist then provides the initial 
training in order to ensure that the patient can accurately 
perform the activity. The respiratory therapist may again 
check the patient's oxygen saturation level, or perform peak 
respiratory flow, or check other respiratory parameters. These 
types of services are considered "physiological monitoring" 
and are bundled into the payment for HCPCS codes G0237, 
G0238 and G0239. Physiological monitoring also includes the 
provision of a 6-minute walk test that is typically conducted 
before the start of the patient's respiratory therapy activities. 
The time to provide this walk "test" assessment is included as 
part of the HCPCS code G0238. When provided as part of a 
CORF respiratory therapy plan of treatment, payment for these 
monitoring activities is bundled into the payment for other 
services provided by the respiratory therapist, such as the 
three respiratory therapy specific G-codes. 
B. Guidelines for Applying Coverage Criteria
There are some conditions for which respiratory therapy 
services may be indicated. However, respiratory therapy 
performed as part of a standard protocol without regard to the 
individual patient's actual condition, capacity for improving, and 
the need for such services as established, is not reasonable 
and medically necessary. All respiratory therapy services must 
meet the test of being "reasonable and medically necessary" 
pursuant to§ 1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Act. Determinations of 
medical necessity are made based on local contractor 
decisions on a claim-by-claim basis. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
The three HCPCS codes G0237, G0238, and G0239 are 
specific to services provided under the respiratory therapy plan 
of treatment and, as such, are not designated as subject to the 
therapy caps. 
C. Patient Education Programs
Instructing a patient in the use of equipment, breathing 
exercises, etc. may be considered reasonable and necessary 
to the patient's respiratory therapy plan of treatment and can 
usually be given to a patient during the course of treatment by 
the respiratory therapist. 
These educational instructions are bundled into the covered 
service and separate payment is not made. 
100-2, Chapter-12, 40.8
Nursing Services 
CORF nursing services may only be provided by an individual 
meeting the qualifications of a registered nurse, as defined 
at 42CFR485.70 (h). They must relate to, or be a part of, the 
rehabilitation plan of treatment. 
CORF nursing services must be reasonable and medically 
necessary and are provided as an adjunct to the rehabilitation 
plan of treatment. For example, a registered nurse 
may perform or instruct a patient, as appropriate, in the 
proper procedure of "in and out" urethral catheterization, 
tracheostomy tube suctioning, or the cleaning for ileostomy or 
colostomy bags. 
Nursing services may not substitute for or supplant the 
services of physical therapists, occupational therapists, 
speech-language pathologists and respiratory therapists, 
but instead must support or further the services and goals 
provided in the rehabilitation plan of treatment. 
CORF nursing services must be provided by a registered 
nurse and may only be coded as HCPCS code G0128 
indicating that CORF "nursing services" were provided. 
100-2, Chapter-12, 40.11
Vaccines 
A CORF may provide pneumococcal pneumonia, influenza 
virus, and Hepatitis B vaccines to its patients. While not 
included as a service under the CORF benefit, Medicare will 
make payment to the CORF for certain vaccines and their 
administration provided to CORF patients (CY 2008 PFS Rule 
72 FR 66293). 
The following three vaccinations are covered in a CORF if a 
physician who is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy orders it 
for a CORF patient: 
•
Pneumococcal pneumonia vaccine and its administration; 
Hepatitis B vaccine and its administration furnished
to a beneficiary who is at high or intermediate risk of 
contracting Hepatitis B; and 
•
Influenza virus vaccine and its administration
Payment for covered pneumococcal pneumonia, influenza 
virus, and Hepatitis B vaccines provided in the CORF setting 
is based on 95 percent of the average wholesale price. The 
CORF registered nurse provides administration of any of these 
vaccines using HCPCS codes G0008, G0009 or G001 O with 
payment based on CPT® code 90471. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 50
Drugs and Biologicals 
The Medicare program provides limited benefits for outpatient 
drugs. The program covers drugs that are furnished "incident 
to" a physician's service provided that the drugs are not usually 
self-administered by the patients who take them. 
Generally, drugs and biologicals are covered only if all of the 
following requirements are met: 
•
They meet the definition of drugs or biologicals (see
§50.1 ); 
•
They are of the type that are not usually self­
administered. (see §50.2);
They meet all the general requirements for coverage of
items as incident to a physician's services (see §§50.1 
and 50.3);
•
They are reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis 
or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are 
administered according to accepted standards of medical 
practice (see §50.4 ); 
They are not excluded as non covered immunizations 
(see §50.4.4.2); and 
They have not been determined by the FDA to be less
than effective. (See §§50.4.4) 
Medicare Part B does generally not cover drugs that can be 
self-administered, such as those in pill form, or are used for 
self-injection. However, the statute provides for the coverage of 
some self-administered drugs. Examples of self-administered 
drugs that are covered include blood-clotting factors, drugs 
used in immunosuppressive therapy, erythropoietin for dialysis 
patients, osteoporosis drugs for certain homebound patients, 
and certain oral cancer drugs. (See §110.3for coverage of 
drugs, which are necessary to the effective use of Durable 
Medical Equipment (DME) or prosthetic devices.) 
100-2, Chapter-15, 50.4.2
Unlabeled Use of Drug 
An unlabeled use of a drug is a use that is not included as 
an indication on the drugs label as approved by the FDA. 
FDA approved drugs used for indications other than what 
is indicated on the official label may be covered under 
Medicare if the carrier determines the use to be medically 
accepted, taking into consideration the major drug compendia, 
authoritative medical literature and/or accepted standards of 
medical practice. In the case of drugs used in an anti-cancer 
chemotherapeutic regimen, unlabeled uses are covered for a 
medically accepted indication as defined in §50.5. 
These decisions are made by the contractor on a case-by­
case basis. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 50.4.4.2
Immunizations 
Vaccinations or inoculations are excluded as immunizations 
unless they are directly related to the treatment of an injury 
or direct exposure to a disease or condition, such as anti­
rabies treatment, tetanus antitoxin or booster vaccine, botulin 
antitoxin, antivenin sera, or immune globulin. In the absence of 
injury or direct exposure, preventive immunization (vaccination 
or inoculation) against such diseases as smallpox, polio, 
diphtheria, etc., is not covered. However, pneumococcal, 
Hepatitis B, and influenza virus vaccines are exceptions to 
this rule. (See items A, B, and C below.) In cases where a 
635 
vaccination or inoculation is excluded from coverage, related 
charges are also not covered. 
A. Pneumococcal Pneumonia Vaccinations 
1.
Background and History of Coverage: 
Section 1861 (s)(10)(A) of the Social Security Act and 
regulations at 42 CFR 410.57 authorize Medicare 
coverage under Part B for pneumococcal vaccine and its
administration.
For services furnished on or after May 1, 1981 through
September 18, 2014, the Medicare Part B program
covered pneumococcal pneumonia vaccine and its
administration when furnished in compliance with
any applicable State law by any provider of services 
or any entity or individual with a supplier number. 
Coverage included an initial vaccine administered only 
to persons at high risk of serious pneumococcal disease 
(including all people 65 and older; immunocompetent
adults at increased risk of pneumococcal disease or its 
complications because of chronic illness; and individuals 
with compromised immune systems), with revaccination 
administered only to persons at highest risk of serious 
pneumococcal infection and those likely to have a rapid
decline in pneumococcal antibody levels, provided that 
at least 5 years had passed since the previous dose of 
pneumococcal vaccine.
Those administering the vaccine did not require the
patient to present an immunization record prior to 
administering the pneumococcal vaccine, nor were they 
compelled to review the patient's complete medical 
record if it was not available, relying on the patient's 
verbal history to determine prior vaccination status. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after
September 19, 2014, an initial pneumococcal vaccine
may be administered to all Medicare beneficiaries who
have never received a pneumococcal vaccination under 
Medicare Part B. A different, second pneumococcal 
vaccine may be administered 1 year after the first vaccine 
was administered (i.e., 11 full months have passed 
following the month in which the last pneumococcal 
vaccine was administered).
Effective July 1, 2000, Medicare no longer required
for coverage purposes that a doctor of medicine or 
osteopathy order the vaccine. Therefore, a beneficiary 
could receive the vaccine upon request without a 
physician's order and without physician supervision.
2. Coverage Requirements:
636 
Effective July 1, 2021, the Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services (CMS) updated the Medicare
coverage requirements to align with ACIP 
recommendations. Adults age e::65 years who have not
previously received pneumococcal conjugate vaccine
(PCV) or whose previous vaccination history is unknown 
should receive 1 dose of PCV (either PCV20 or PCV15). 
When PCV15 is used, it should be followed by a dose 
of 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 
(PPSV23).
For !_hose adults age 19-64 years with certain underlying
medical cond1t1ons or other risk factors who have not 
previously received PCV or whose previous vaccination
history is unknown should receive 1 dose of PCV (either 
PCV20 or PCV15). When PCV15 is used, it should be 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
followed by a dose of PPSV23. Underlying medical 
conditions or other risk factors include alcoholism, chronic 
heart disease, chronic liver disease, chronic lung disease, 
cigarette smoking, diabetes mellitus, cochlear implant, 
cerebrospinal fluid leak, congenital or acquired asplenia, 
sickle cell disease or other hemoglobinopathies, chronic 
renal failure, congenital or acquired immunodeficiencies, 
generalized malignancy, HIV infection, Hodgkin disease, 
iatrogenic immunosuppression, leukemia, lymphoma, 
multiple myeloma, nephrotic syndrome and solid organ 
transplant. 
Clinical guidance shows that when PCV15 is used, 
the recommended interval between administration of 
PCV15 and PPSV23 is 2:1 year. A minimum interval 
of 8 weeks can be considered for adults with an 
immunocompromising condition, cochlear implant, 
or cerebrospinal fluid leak to minimize the risk for 
invasive pneumococcal disease caused by serotypes 
unique to PPSV23 in these vulnerable groups. 
lmmunocompromising conditions include chronic renal 
failure, congenital or acquired immunodeficiencies, 
generalized malignancy, HIV infection, Hodgkin disease, 
iatrogenic immunosuppression, leukemia, lymphoma, 
multiple myeloma, nephrotic syndrome, solid organ 
transplant, congenital or acquired asplenia, sickle cell 
disease, or other hemoglobinopathies. 
For adults who only received PPSV23, they may receive 
a PCV (either PCV20 or PCV15) e::1 year after their last 
PPSV23 dose. When PCV15 is used in those with history 
of PPSV23 receipt, it need not be followed by another 
dose of PPSV23. 
Effective October 19, 2022, CMS adds the following 
coverage requirements to align with additional ACIP 
recommendations and further clarifies the 2021 update. 
For adults aged e::65 years who completed their 
vaccine series with both PCV13 and PPSV23, but no 
PPSV23 was received at age e::65, either one dose 
of PCV20 is recommended at least 5 years after 
the last pneumococcal vaccine dose, or complete 
the recommended PPSV23 series as previously 
recommended. 
Shared clinical decision-making is recommended 
regarding administration of PCV20 for adults age e::65 
years who completed their vaccine series with both 
PCV13 and PPSV23, and PPSV was received at age 
e::65. If a decision to administer PCV20 is made, a dose 
of PCV20 is recommended at least 5 years after the last 
pneumococcal vaccine dose. 
In addition, adults age e::65 years and adults age 19-64 
years with certain underlying medical conditions or other 
risk factors who received PCV13 only are recommended 
to receive a dose of PCV20 at least 1 year after the 
PCV13 dose, or PPSV23 as previously recommended to 
complete their pneumococcal vaccine series. 
ACIP recommends that adults age 19-64 years with 
certain underlying medical conditions or other risk 
factors who have received both PCV13 and PPSV23 
with incomplete vaccination status are recommended to 
complete their pneumococcal vaccine series by receiving 
either a dose of PCV20 at least 5 years after the last 
pneumococcal vaccine dose, or PPSV23 as previously 
recommended. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Those administering the vaccine should not require 
the patient to present an immunization record prior to 
administering the pneumococcal vaccine, nor should 
they feel compelled to review the patient's complete 
medical record if it to rely on the patient's verbal history to 
determine prior vaccination status. 
Medicare does not require for coverage purposes that 
a doctor of medicine or osteopathy order the vaccine. 
Therefore, the beneficiary may receive the vaccine upon 
request without a physician's order and without physician 
supervision. 
B. Hepatitis B Vaccine
Effective for services furnished on or after September 1, 1984, 
P.L. 98-369 provides coverage under Part B for Hepatitis
B vaccine and its administration, furnished to a Medicare
beneficiary who is at high or intermediate risk of contracting
Hepatitis B. This coverage is effective for services furnished
on or after September 1, 1984. High-risk groups currently
identified include (see exception below):
ESRD patients; 
Hemophiliacs who receive Factor VIII or IX concentrates; 
•
Clients of institutions for the mentally retarded;
Persons who live in the same household as a Hepatitis B
Virus (HBV) carrier;
Homosexual men;
Illicit injectable drug abusers; and
Persons diagnosed with diabetes mellitus.
Intermediate risk groups currently identified include: 
Staff in institutions for the mentally retarded; and 
Workers in health care professions who have frequent 
contact with blood or blood-derived body fluids during 
routine work. 
EXCEPTION: Persons in both of the above-listed groups in 
paragraph B, would not be considered at high or intermediate 
risk of contracting Hepatitis B, however, if there were 
laboratory evidence positive for antibodies to Hepatitis B. 
(ESRD patients are routinely tested for Hepatitis B antibodies 
as part of their continuing monitoring and therapy.) 
For Medicare program purposes, the vaccine may be 
administered upon the order of a doctor of medicine or 
osteopathy, by a doctor of medicine or osteopathy, or by home 
health agencies, skilled nursing facilities, ESRD facilities, 
hospital outpatient departments, and persons recognized 
under the incident to physicians' services provision of law. 
A charge separate from the ESRD composite rate will be 
recognized and paid for administration of the vaccine to ESRD 
patients. 
C. Influenza Virus Vaccine
Effective for services furnished on or after May 1, 1993, the 
Medicare Part B program covers influenza virus vaccine and 
its administration when furnished in compliance with any 
applicable State law by any provider of services or any entity 
or individual with a supplier number. Typically, these vaccines 
are administered once a flu season. Medicare does not 
require, for coverage purposes, that a doctor of medicine or 
osteopathy order the vaccine. Therefore, the beneficiary may 
receive the vaccine upon request without a physician's order 
and without physician supervision. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 100
Surgical Dressings, Splints, Casts, and Other 
Devices Used for Reductions of Fractures and 
Dislocations 
Surgical dressings are limited to primary and secondary 
dressings required for the treatment of a wound caused by, 
or treated by, a surgical procedure that has been performed 
by a physician or other health care professional to the 
extent permissible under State law. In addition, surgical 
dressings required after debridement of a wound are also 
covered, irrespective of the type of debridement, as long as 
the debridement was reasonable and necessary and was 
performed by a health care professional acting within the 
scope of his/her legal authority when performing this function. 
Surgical dressings are covered for as long as they are 
medically necessary. 
Primary dressings are therapeutic or protective coverings 
applied directly to wounds or lesions either on the skin or 
caused by an opening to the skin. Secondary dressing 
materials that serve a therapeutic or protective function and 
that are needed to secure a primary dressing are also covered. 
Items such as adhesive tape, roll gauze, bandages, and 
disposable compression material are examples of secondary 
dressings. Elastic stockings, support hose, foot coverings, 
leotards, knee supports, surgical leggings, gauntlets, and 
pressure garments for the arms and hands are examples of 
items that are not ordinarily covered as surgical dressings. 
Some items, such as transparent film, may be used as a 
primary or secondary dressing. 
If a physician, certified nurse midwife, physician assistant, 
nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist applies surgical 
dressings as part of a professional service that is billed to 
Medicare, the surgical dressings are considered incident to 
the professional services of the health care practitioner. (See 
§§60.1, 180, 190, 200, and 210.) When surgical dressings
are not covered incident to the services of a health care
practitioner and are obtained by the patient from a supplier
(e.g., a drugstore, physician, or other health care practitioner
that qualifies as a supplier) on an order from a physician or
other health care professional authorized under State law or 
regulation to make such an order, the surgical dressings are 
covered separately under Part B. 
Splints and casts, and other devices used for reductions 
of fractures and dislocations are covered under Part B of 
Medicare. This includes dental splints. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 110
Durable Medical Equipment -General 
Expenses incurred by a beneficiary for the rental or purchases 
of durable medical equipment (DME) are reimbursable if the 
following three requirements are met: 
•
The equipment meets the definition of DME (§ 110.1 ); 
•
The equipment is necessary and reasonable for the 
treatment of the patient's illness or injury or to improve
the functioning of his or her malformed body member
(§110.1); and
•
The equipment is used in the patient's home.
The decision whether to rent or purchase an item of equipment 
generally resides with the beneficiary, but the decision 
on how to pay rests with CMS. For some DME, program 
payment policy calls for lump sum payments and in others 
637 
for periodic payment. Where covered DME is furnished to 
a beneficiary by a supplier of services other than a provider 
of services other than a provider of services, the DME 
MAC makes the reimbursement. If a provider of services 
furnishes the equipment, the A/8 MAC (A) or (HHH) makes 
the reimbursement. The payment method is identified in the 
annual fee schedule update furnished by CMS. 
The CMS issues quarterly updates to a fee schedule file 
that contains rates by HCPCS code and also identifies 
the classification of the HCPCS code within the following 
categories. 
Category 
Definition 
Code 
IN 
Inexpensive and Other Routinely Purchased Items 
FS 
Frequently Serviced Items 
CR 
Capped Rental Items 
OX 
Oxygen and Oxygen Equipment 
OS 
Ostomy, Tracheostomy & Urological Items 
SD 
Surgical Dressings 
PO 
Prosthetics & Orthotics 
SU 
Supplies 
TE 
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulators 
The A/8 MACs (A), (8), and (HHH), and DME MACs, where 
appropriate, use the CMS files to determine payment rules. 
See the Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Chapter 20, 
"Durable Medical Equipment, Surgical Dressings and Casts, 
Orthotics and Artificial Limbs, and Prosthetic Devices," for a 
detailed description of payment rules for each classification. 
Payment may also be made for repairs, maintenance, and 
delivery of equipment and for expendable and nonreusable 
items essential to the effective use of the equipment subject to 
the conditions in §110.2. 
See the Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 11, "End 
Stage Renal Disease," for hemodialysis equipment and 
supplies. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 110.1
Definition of Durable Medical Equipment 
Durable medical equipment is equipment which: 
•
Can withstand repeated use; 
Is primarily and customarily used to serve a medical 
purpose;
•
Generally is not useful to a person in the absence of an 
illness or injury; and 
Is appropriate for use in the home.
All requirements of the definition must be met before an item 
can be considered to be durable medical equipment. 
The following describes the underlying policies for determining 
whether an item meets the definition of DME and may be 
covered. 
A. Durability
An item is considered durable if it can withstand repeated use,. 
1.e., the type of item that could normally be rented. Medical 
supplies of an expendable nature, such as incontinent pads, 
lamb s wool pads, catheters, ace bandages, elastic stockings, 
surgical facemasks, irrigating kits, sheets, and bags are not 
considered "durable" within the meaning of the definition. 
There are other items that, although durable in nature, may 
638 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
fall into other coverage categories such as supplies, braces, 
prosthetic devices, artificial arms, legs, and eyes. 
B. Medical Equipment
Medical equipment is equipment primarily and customarily 
used for medical purposes and is not generally useful 
in the absence of illness or injury. In most instances, no 
development will be needed to determine whether a specific 
item of equipment is medical in nature. However, some 
cases will require development to determine whether the 
item constitutes medical equipment. This development would 
include the advice of local medical organizations (hospitals, 
medical schools, medical societies) and specialists in the 
field of physical medicine and rehabilitation. If the equipment 
is new on the market, it may be necessary, prior to seeking 
professional advice, to obtain information from the supplier or 
manufacturer explaining the design, purpose, effectiveness 
and method of using the equipment in the home as well as 
the results of any tests or clinical studies that have been 
conducted. 
1. Equipment Presumptively Medical
Items such as hospital beds, wheelchairs, hemodialysis 
equipment, iron lungs, respirators, intermittent positive 
pressure breathing machines, medical regulators, oxygen 
tents, crutches, canes, trapeze bars, walkers, inhalators, 
nebulizers, commodes, suction machines, and traction 
equipment presumptively constitute medical equipment. 
(Although hemodialysis equipment is covered as a prosthetic 
device (§120), it also meets the definition of DME, and 
reimbursement for the rental or purchase of such equipment 
for use in the beneficiary's home will be made only under the 
provisions for payment applicable to DME. See the Medicare 
Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 11, "End Stage Renal Disease" 
§30.1, for coverage of home use of hemodialysis.) 
NOTE: There is a wide variety in types of respirators and 
suction machines. The DME MACs medical staff should 
determine whether the apparatus specified in the claim is 
appropriate for home use. 
2. Equipment Presumptively Nonmedical
Equipment which is primarily and customarily used for 
a nonmedical purpose may not be considered "medical" 
equipment for which payment can be made under the medical 
insurance program. This is true even though the item has 
some remote medically related use. For example, in the case 
of a cardiac patient, an air conditioner might possibly be used 
to lower room temperature to reduce fluid loss in the patient 
and to restore an environment conducive to maintenance of 
the proper fluid balance. Nevertheless, because the primary 
and customary use of an air conditioner is a nonmedical one 
the air conditioner cannot be deemed to be medical equipmnt 
for which payment can be made. 
Other devices and equipment used for environmental control or 
to enhance the environmental setting in which the beneficiary 
is placed are not considered covered DME. These include, 
for example, room heaters, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, and 
electric air cleaners. Equipment which basically serves comfort 
or convenience functions or is primarily for the convenience 
of a person caring for the patient, such as elevators, stairway 
elevators, and posture chairs, do not constitute medical 
equipment. Similarly, physical fitness equipment (such as an 
exercycle}, first-aid or precautionary-type equipment (such as 
preset portable oxygen units}, self-help devices (such as safety 
grab bars), and training equipment (such as Braille training 
texts) are considered nonmedical in nature. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
3. Special Exception Items
Specified items of equipment may be covered under certain 
conditions even though they do not meet the definition of DME 
because they are not primarily and customarily used to serve 
a medical purpose and/or are generally useful in the absence 
of illness or injury. These items would be covered when it is 
clearly established that they serve a therapeutic purpose in an 
individual case and would include: 
a. Gel pads and pressure and water mattresses (which
generally serve a preventive purpose) when prescribed
for a patient who had bed sores or there is medical
evidence indicating that they are highly susceptible to
such ulceration; and
b. Heat lamps for a medical rather than a soothing or
cosmetic purpose, e.g., where the need for heat therapy
has been established.
In establishing medical necessity for the above items, the 
evidence must show that the item is included in the physician's 
course of treatment and a physician is supervising its use. 
NOTE: The above items represent special exceptions and no 
extension of coverage to other items should be inferred. 
C. Necessary and Reasonable
Although an item may be classified as DME, it may not be 
covered in every instance. Coverage in a particular case is 
subject to the requirement that the equipment be necessary 
and reasonable for treatment of an illness or injury, or to 
improve the functioning of a malformed body member. These 
considerations will bar payment for equipment which cannot 
reasonably be expected to perform a therapeutic function in an 
individual case or will permit only partial therapeutic function 
in an individual case or will permit only partial payment when 
the type of equipment furnished substantially exceeds that 
required for the treatment of the illness or injury involved. 
See the Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Chapter 1, 
"General Billing Requirements;" §60, regarding the rules for 
providing advance beneficiary notices (ABNs) that advise 
beneficiaries, before items or services actually are furnished, 
when Medicare is likely to deny payment for them. ABNs allow 
beneficiaries to make an informed consumer decision about 
receiving items or services for which they may have to pay out­
of-pocket and to be more active participants in their own health 
care treatment decisions. 
1. Necessity for the Equipment
Equipment is necessary when it can be expected to make 
a meaningful contribution to the treatment of the patient's 
illness or injury or to the improvement of his or her malformed 
body member. In most cases the physician's prescription for 
the equipment and other medical information available to 
the DMERC will be sufficient to establish that the equipment 
serves this purpose. 
2. Reasonableness of the Equipment
Even though an item of DME may serve a useful medical 
purpose, the DMERC or intermediary must also consider to 
what extent, if any, it would be reasonable for the Medicare 
program to pay for the item prescribed. The following 
considerations should enter into the determination of 
reasonableness: 
1 . Would the expense of the item to the program be clearly 
disproportionate to the therapeutic benefits which could 
ordinarily be derived from use of the equipment? 
(PT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
2. Is the item substantially more costly than a medically
appropriate and realistically feasible alternative pattern of
care?
3. Does the item serve essentially the same purpose as
equipment already available to the beneficiary?
3. Payment Consistent With What is Necessary and
Reasonable
Where a claim is filed for equipment containing features of 
an aesthetic nature or features of a medical nature which are 
not required by the patient's condition or where there exists 
a reasonably feasible and medically appropriate alternative 
pattern of care which is less costly than the equipment 
furnished, the amount payable is based on the rate for the 
equipment or alternative treatment which meets the patient's 
medical needs. 
The acceptance of an assignment binds the supplier-assignee 
to accept the payment for the medically required equipment 
or service as the full charge and the supplier-assignee cannot 
charge the beneficiary the differential attributable to the 
equipment actually furnished. 
4. Establishing the Period of Medical Necessity
Generally, the period of time an item of durable medical 
equipment will be considered to be medically necessary is 
based on the physician's estimate of the time that his or her 
patient will need the equipment. See the Medicare Program 
Integrity Manual, Chapters 5 and 6, for medical review 
guidelines. 
D. Definition of a Beneficiary's Home
For purposes of rental and purchase of DME a beneficiary's 
home may be his/her own dwelling, an apartment, a relative's 
home, a home for the aged, or some other type of institution 
(such as an assisted living facility, or an intermediate care 
facility for the mentally retarded (ICF/11D)). However, an 
institution may not be considered a beneficiary's home if it: 
•
Meets at least the basic requirement (see §1861 (e)(1)
of the Social Security Act (the Act)) in the definition of
a hospital, i.e., it is primarily engaged in providing by 
or under the supervision of physicians, to inpatients,
diagnostic and therapeutic services for medical
diagnosis, treatment, and care of injured, disabled,
and sick persons, or rehabilitation services for the
rehabilitation of injured, disabled, or sick persons; or
•
Meets at least the basic requirement (see §1819(a)(1)
of the Act) in the definition of a skilled nursing facility,
i.e., it is primarily engaged in providing to inpatients
skilled nursing care and related services for patients who
require medical or nursing care, or rehabilitation services
for the rehabilitation of injured, disabled, or sick persons.
Thus, if an individual is a patient in an institution or distinct 
part of an institution which provides the services described 
in the bullets above, the individual is not entitled to have 
separate Part B payment made for rental or purchase of DME. 
This is because such an institution may not be considered 
the individual's home. (see §§1861 (s)(6) and 1861 (n) of the 
Act, the implementing regulations at 42 CFR 410.38(b), and 
§2160B in the State Operations Manual (SOM, Pub. 100-07),
Chapter 2).
As indicated in §2164 of the SOM, Chapter 2, all hospitals and 
SNFs that are Medicare certified are automatically considered 
to meet the basic requirement described in the applicable 
bullet above by reason of the Medicare certification itself. 
Moreover, even an institution (or portion of an institution) that 
639 
is not certified for Medicare is precluded from being considered 
a patient's home in this context if it meets either of these basic 
requirements. See §2166 of the SOM, Chapter 2, for the 
administrative criteria used in determining whether the basic 
requirement in the "SNF" definition is met by a nursing home 
that is not Medicare-certified (including the non-Medicare 
portion of an institution that also contains a Medicare-certified 
distinct part SNF). 
If the patient is at home for part of a month and, for part of 
the same month is in an institution that cannot qualify as his 
or her home, or is outside the U.S., monthly payments may 
be made for the entire month. Similarly, if DME is returned 
to the provider before the end of a payment month because 
the beneficiary died in that month or because the equipment 
became unnecessary in that month, payment may be made for 
the entire month. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 110.2
Repairs, Maintenance, Replacement, and Delivery 
Under the circumstances specified below, payment may be 
made for repair, maintenance, and replacement of medically 
required DME, including equipment which had been in use 
before the user enrolled in Part B of the program. However, do 
not pay for repair, maintenance, or replacement of equipment 
in the frequent and substantial servicing or oxygen equipment 
payment categories. In addition, payments for repair and 
maintenance may not include payment for parts and labor 
covered under a manufacturer's or supplier's warranty. 
A. Repairs
To repair means to fix or mend and to put the equipment back 
in good condition after damage or wear. Repairs to equipment 
which a beneficiary owns are covered when necessary to 
make the equipment serviceable. However, do not pay for 
repair of previously denied equipment or equipment in the 
frequent and substantial servicing or oxygen equipment 
payment categories. If the expense for repairs exceeds the 
estimated expense of purchasing or renting another item 
of equipment for the remaining period of medical need, no 
payment can be made for the amount of the excess. (See 
subsection C where claims for repairs suggest malicious 
damage or culpable neglect.) 
Since renters of equipment recover from the rental charge 
the expenses they incur in maintaining in working order the 
equipment they rent out, separately itemized charges for repair 
of rented equipment are not covered. This includes items in the 
frequent and substantial servicing, oxygen equipment, capped 
rental, and inexpensive or routinely purchased payment 
categories which are being rented. 
A new Certificate of Medical Necessity (CMN) and/or 
physician's order is not needed for repairs. 
For replacement items, see Subsection C below. 
B. Maintenance
Routine periodic servicing, such as testing, cleaning, 
regulating, and checking of the beneficiary's equipment, is 
not covered. The owner is expected to perform such routine 
maintenance rather than a retailer or some other person who 
charges the beneficiary. Normally, purchasers of DME are 
given operating manuals which describe the type of servicing 
an owner may perform to properly maintain the equipment. 
It is reasonable to expect that beneficiaries will perform this 
maintenance. Thus, hiring a third party to do such work is 
for the convenience of the beneficiary and is not covered. 
640 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
However, more extensive maintenance which, based on the 
manufacturers' recommendations, is to be performed by 
authorized technicians, is covered as repairs for medically 
necessary equipment which a beneficiary owns. This might 
include, for example, breaking down sealed components and 
performing tests which require specialized testing equipment 
not available to the beneficiary. Do not pay for maintenance of 
purchased items that require frequent and substantial servicing 
or oxygen equipment. 
Since renters of equipment recover from the rental charge 
the expenses they incur in maintaining in working order the 
equipment they rent out, separately itemized charges for 
maintenance of rented equipment are generally not covered. 
Payment may not be made for maintenance of rented 
equipment other than the maintenance and servicing fee 
established for capped rental items. For capped rental items 
which have reached the 13-month rental cap, contractors pay 
claims for maintenance and servicing fees after 6 months have 
passed from the end of the final paid rental month or from 
the end of the period the item is no longer covered under the 
supplier's or manufacturer's warranty, whichever is later. See 
the Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Chapter 20, "Durable 
Medical Equipment, Prosthetics and Orthotics, and Supplies 
(DMEPOS)," for additional instruction and an example. 
A new CMN and/or physician's order is not needed for covered 
maintenance. 
In cases where one or more monthly rental payments have 
been made in accordance with 42 CFR 414.229 for a capped 
rental DME item, medical necessity for the equipment has 
been established. In cases where one or more rental payments 
have been made for an item classified as capped rental DME, 
and the supplier transfers title to the equipment prior to the end 
of a 13 month period of continuous use per 42 CFR 414.230, 
Medicare payment can be made for reasonable and necessary 
maintenance and servicing of the beneficiary-owned DME. 
Under the regulations at 42 CFR 414.210(e)(1 ), reasonable 
and necessary charges for maintenance and servicing are 
those made for parts and labor not otherwise covered under 
a manufacturer's or supplier's warranty. Charges for routine 
maintenance and servicing would not be covered. Charges for 
maintenance and servicing that exceed the purchase price of 
the equipment (i.e., the capped rental monthly fee multiplied 
by 10) would not be reasonable and necessary and should be 
denied. 
C. Replacement
Replacement refers to the provision of an identical or nearly 
identical item. Situations involving the provision of a different 
item because of a change in medical condition are not 
addressed in this section. 
Equipment which the beneficiary owns or is a capped rental 
item may be replaced in cases of loss or irreparable damage. 
Irreparable damage refers to a specific accident or to a natural 
disaster (e.g., fire, flood). A physician's order and/or new 
Certificate of Medical Necessity (CMN), when required, is 
needed to reaffirm the medical necessity of the item. 
Irreparable wear refers to deterioration sustained from day-to­
day usage over time and a specific event cannot be identified. 
Replacement of equipment due to irreparable wear takes into 
consideration the reasonable useful lifetime of the equipment. 
If the item of equipment has been in continuous use by the 
patient on either a rental or purchase basis for the equipment's 
useful lifetime, the beneficiary may elect to obtain a new piece 
of equipment. Replacement may be reimbursed when a new 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
physician order and/or new CMN, when required, is needed to 
reaffirm the medical necessity of the item. 
The reasonable useful lifetime of durable medical equipment 
is determined through program instructions. In the absence 
of program instructions, A/B MACS (B) may determine the 
reasonable useful lifetime of equipment, but in no case can 
it be less than 5 years. Computation of the useful lifetime is 
based on when the equipment is delivered to the beneficiary, 
not the age of the equipment. Replacement due to wear 
is not covered during the reasonable useful lifetime of the 
equipment. During the reasonable useful lifetime, Medicare 
does cover repair up to the cost of replacement (but not actual 
replacement) for medically necessary equipment owned by the 
beneficiary. (See subsection A.) 
Charges for the replacement of oxygen equipment, items 
that require frequent and substantial servicing or inexpensive 
or routinely purchased items which are being rented are not 
covered. 
Cases suggesting malicious damage, culpable neglect, or 
wrongful disposition of equipment should be investigated 
and denied where the DME MACs determines that it 
is unreasonable to make program payment under the 
circumstances. DME MACs refer such cases to the program 
integrity specialist in the RO. 
D. Delivery
Payment for delivery of DME whether rented or purchased 
is generally included in the fee schedule allowance for the 
item. See Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, 
Chapter 20, "Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics and 
Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS)," for the rules that apply to 
making reimbursement for exceptional cases. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 110.3
Coverage of Supplies and Accessories 
Payment may be made for supplies, e.g., oxygen, that are 
necessary for the effective use of durable medical equipment. 
Such supplies include those drugs and biologicals which 
must be put directly into the equipment in order to achieve 
the therapeutic benefit of the durable medical equipment or 
to assure the proper functioning of the equipment, e.g., tumor 
chemotherapy agents used with an infusion pump or heparin 
used with a home dialysis system. However, the coverage of 
such drugs or biologicals does not preclude the need for a 
determination that the drug or biological itself is reasonable 
and necessary for treatment of the illness or injury or to 
improve the functioning of a malformed body member. 
In the case of prescription drugs, other than oxygen, used 
in conjunction with durable medical equipment, prosthetic, 
orthotics, and supplies (DMEPOS) or prosthetic devices, 
the entity that dispenses the drug must furnish it directly to 
the patient for whom a prescription is written. The entity that 
dispenses the drugs must have a Medicare supplier number, 
must possess a current license to dispense prescription drugs 
in the State in which the drug is dispensed, and must bill and 
receive payment in its own name. A supplier that is not the 
entity that dispenses the drugs cannot purchase the drugs 
used in conjunction with DME for resale to the beneficiary. 
Reimbursement may be made for replacement of essential 
accessories such as hoses, tubes, mouthpieces, etc., for 
necessary DME, only if the beneficiary owns or is purchasing 
the equipment. 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 120
Prosthetic Devices 
A. General
Prosthetic devices (other than dental) which replace all or part 
of an internal body organ (including contiguous tissue), or 
replace all or part of the function of a permanently inoperative 
or malfunctioning internal body organ are covered when 
furnished on a physician's order. This does not require a 
determination that there is no possibility that the patient's 
condition may improve sometime in the future. If the medical 
record, including the judgment of the attending physician, 
indicates the condition is of long and indefinite duration, the 
test of permanence is considered met. (Such a device may 
also be covered under §60.1 as a supply when furnished 
incident to a physician's service.) 
Examples of prosthetic devices include artificial limbs, 
parenteral and enteral (PEN) nutrition, cardiac pacemakers, 
prosthetic lenses (see subsection B), breast prostheses 
(including a surgical brassiere) for post mastectomy patients, 
maxillofacial devices, and devices which replace all or part 
of the ear or nose. A urinary collection and retention system 
with or without a tube is a prosthetic device replacing bladder 
function in case of permanent urinary incontinence. The Foley 
catheter is also considered a prosthetic device when ordered 
for a patient with permanent urinary incontinence. However, 
chucks, diapers, rubber sheets, etc., are supplies that are 
not covered under this provision. Although hemodialysis 
equipment is a prosthetic device, payment for the rental or 
purchase of such equipment in the home is made only for use 
under the provisions for payment applicable to durable medical 
equipment. 
An exception is that if payment cannot be made on an 
inpatient's behalf under Part A, hemodialysis equipment, 
supplies, and services required by such patient could be 
covered under Part B as a prosthetic device, which replaces 
the function of a kidney. See the Medicare Benefit Policy 
Manual, Chapter 11, "End Stage Renal Disease," for payment 
for hemodialysis equipment used in the home. See the 
Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 1, "Inpatient Hospital 
Services," § 10, for additional instructions on hospitalization for 
renal dialysis. 
NOTE: Medicare does not cover a prosthetic device dispensed 
to a patient prior to the time at which the patient undergoes 
the procedure that makes necessary the use of the device. For 
example, the carrier does not make a separate Part B payment 
for an intraocular lens (IOL) or pacemaker that a physician, 
during an office visit prior to the actual surgery, dispenses to 
the patient for his or her use. Dispensing a prosthetic device 
in this manner raises health and safety issues. Moreover, 
the need for the device cannot be clearly established until 
the procedure that makes its use possible is successfully 
performed. Therefore, dispensing a prosthetic device in this 
manner is not considered reasonable and necessary for the 
treatment of the patient's condition. 
Colostomy (and other ostomy) bags and necessary 
accouterments required for attachment are covered as 
prosthetic devices. This coverage also includes irrigation 
and flushing equipment and other items and supplies directly 
related to ostomy care, whether the attachment of a bag is 
required. 
Accessories and/or supplies which are used directly with 
an enteral or parenteral device to achieve the therapeutic 
benefit of the prosthesis or to assure the proper functioning of 
641 
the device may also be covered under the prosthetic device 
benefit subject to the additional guidelines in the Medicare 
National Coverage Determinations Manual. 
Covered items include catheters, filters, extension tubing, 
infusion bottles, pumps (either food or infusion), intravenous 
(1.V.) pole, needles, syringes, dressings, tape, Heparin Sodium 
(parenteral only), volumetric monitors (parenteral only), and 
parenteral and enteral nutrient solutions. Baby food and other 
regular grocery products that can be blenderized and used 
with the enteral system are not covered. Note that some 
of these items, e.g., a food pump and an I.V. pole, qualify 
as DME. Although coverage of the enteral and parenteral 
nutritional therapy systems is provided on the basis of the 
prosthetic device benefit, the payment rules relating to lump 
sum or monthly payment for DME apply to such items. 
The coverage of prosthetic devices includes replacement of 
and repairs to such devices as explained in subsection D. 
Finally, the Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 
amended § 1834(h )( 1) of the Act by adding a provision ( 1834 
(h)(1 )(G)(i)) that requires Medicare payment to be made for 
the replacement of prosthetic devices which are artificial limbs, 
or for the replacement of any part of such devices, without 
regard to continuous use or useful lifetime restrictions if an 
ordering physician determines that the replacement device, or 
replacement part of such a device, is necessary. 
Payment may be made for the replacement of a prosthetic 
device that is an artificial limb, or replacement part of a device 
if the ordering physician determines that the replacement 
device or part is necessary because of any of the following: 
1.
A change in the physiological condition of the patient; 
2. An irreparable change in the condition of the device, or in 
a part of the device; or 
3. The condition of the device, or the part of the device, 
requires repairs and the cost of such repairs would be
more than 60 percent of the cost of a replacement device,
or, as the case may be, of the part being replaced.
This provision is effective for items replaced on or after April 
1, 2001. It supersedes any rule that that provided a 5-year or 
other replacement rule with regard to prosthetic devices. 
B. Prosthetic Lenses
The term "internal body organ" includes the lens of an eye. 
Prostheses replacing the lens of an eye include post-surgical 
lenses customarily used during convalescence from eye 
surgery in which the lens of the eye was removed. In addition, 
permanent lenses are also covered when required by an 
individual lacking the organic lens of the eye because of 
surgical removal or congenital absence. Prosthetic lenses 
obtained on or after the beneficiary's date of entitlement to 
supplementary medical insurance benefits may be covered 
even though the surgical removal of the crystalline lens 
occurred before entitlement. 
1. Prosthetic Cataract Lenses
One of the following prosthetic lenses or combinations of 
prosthetic lenses furnished by a physician (see §30.4 for 
coverage of prosthetic lenses prescribed by a doctor of 
optometry) may be covered when determined to be reasonable 
and necessary to restore essentially the vision provided by the 
crystalline lens of the eye: 
642 
Prosthetic bifocal lenses in frames; 
Prosthetic lenses in frames for far vision, and prosthetic 
lenses in frames for near vision; or 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
•
When a prosthetic contact lens(es) for far vision is 
prescribed (including cases of binocular and monocular 
aphakia), make payment for the contact lens(es) and 
prosthetic lenses in frames for near vision to be worn at 
the same time as the contact lens(es), and prosthetic 
lenses in frames to be worn when the contacts have
been removed. 
Lenses which have ultraviolet absorbing or reflecting 
properties may be covered, in lieu of payment for regular 
(untinted) lenses, if ii has been determined that such lenses 
are medically reasonable and necessary for the individual 
patient. 
Medicare does not cover cataract sunglasses obtained in 
addition to the regular (untinted) prosthetic lenses since 
the sunglasses duplicate the restoration of vision function 
performed by the regular prosthetic lenses. 
2. Payment for lntraocular Lenses (IOLs) Furnished in
Ambulatory Surgical Centers {ASCs)
Effective for services furnished on or after March 12, 1990, 
payment for intraocular lenses (IOLs) inserted during or 
subsequent to cataract surgery in a Medicare certified ASC 
is included with the payment for facility services that are 
furnished in connection with the covered surgery. 
Refer to the Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Chapter 14, 
"Ambulatory Surgical Centers," for more information. 
3. Limitation on Coverage of Conventional Lenses
One pair of conventional eyeglasses or conventional contact 
lenses furnished after each cataract surgery with insertion of 
an IOL is covered. 
C. Dentures
Dentures are excluded from coverage. However, when a 
denture or a portion of the denture is an integral part (built-in) 
of a covered prosthesis (e.g., an obturator to fill an opening in 
the palate), it is covered as part of that prosthesis. 
D. Supplies, Repairs, Adjustments, and Replacement
Supplies are covered that are necessary for the effective use 
of a prosthetic device (e.g., the batteries needed to operate 
an artificial larynx). Adjustment of prosthetic devices required 
by wear or by a change in the patient's condition is covered 
when ordered by a physician. General provisions relating to 
the repair and replacement of durable medical equipment in 
§110.2 for the repair and replacement of prosthetic devices 
are applicable. (See the Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, 
Chapter 16, "General Exclusions from Coverage," §40.4, for
payment for devices replaced under a warranty.) Replacement
of conventional eyeglasses or contact lenses furnished in
accordance with §120.B.3 is not covered.
Necessary supplies, adjustments, repairs, and replacements 
are covered even when the device had been in use before the 
user enrolled in Part B of the program, so long as the device 
continues to be medically required. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 130
Leg, Arm, Back, and Neck Braces, Trusses, and 
Artificial Legs, Arms, and Eyes 
These appliances are covered under Part B when furnished 
incident to physicians' services or on a physician's order. A 
brace includes rigid and semi-rigid devices which are used for 
the purpose of supporting a weak or deformed body member 
or restricting or eliminating motion in a diseased or injured part 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
of the body. Elastic stockings, garter belts, and similar devices 
do not come within the scope of the definition of a brace. 
Back braces include, but are not limited to, special corsets, 
e.g., sacroiliac, sacrolumbar, dorsolumbar corsets, and belts.
A terminal device (e.g., hand or hook) is covered under this
provision whether an artificial limb is required by the patient.
Stump stockings and harnesses (including replacements)
are also covered when these appliances are essential to the
effective use of the artificial limb.
Adjustments to an artificial limb or other appliance required 
by wear or by a change in the patient's condition are covered 
when ordered by a physician. 
Adjustments, repairs and replacements are covered even 
when the item had been in use before the user enrolled in 
Part B of the program so long as the device continues to be 
medically required. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 140
Therapeutic Shoes for Individuals with Diabetes 
Coverage of therapeutic shoes (depth or custom-molded) 
along with inserts for individuals with diabetes is available 
as of May 1, 1993. These diabetic shoes are covered if 
the requirements as specified in this section concerning 
certification and prescription are fulfilled. In addition, this 
benefit provides for a pair of diabetic shoes even if only one 
foot suffers from diabetic foot disease. Each shoe is equally 
equipped so that the affected limb, as well as the remaining 
limb, is protected. Claims for therapeutic shoes for diabetics 
are processed by the Durable Medical Equipment Medicare 
Administrative Contractors (DME MACs). 
Therapeutic shoes for diabetics are not DME and are not 
considered DME nor orthotics, but a separate category of 
coverage under Medicare Part B. (See §1861 (s)(12) and 
§1833(0) of the Act.) 
A. Definitions
The following items may be covered under the diabetic shoe 
benefit: 
1. Custom-Molded Shoes
Custom-molded shoes are shoes that: 
•
Are constructed over a positive model of the patient's
foot; 
•
Are made from leather or other suitable material of equal
quality;
Have removable inserts that can be altered or replaced
as the patient's condition warrants; and 
Have some form of shoe closure. 
2. Depth Shoes
Depth shoes are shoes that: 
Have a full length, heel-to-toe filler that, when removed, 
provides a minimum of 3/16 inch of additional depth used 
to accommodate custom-molded or customized inserts; 
•
Are made from leather or other suitable material of equal
quality;
Have some form of shoe closure; and 
•
Are available in full and half sizes with a minimum of 
three widths so that the sole is graded to the size and 
width of the upper portions of the shoes according to the 
American standard last sizing schedule or its equivalent. 
(The American standard last sizing schedule is the
numerical shoe sizing system used for shoes sold in the 
United States.)
CP is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
3. Inserts
Inserts are total contact, multiple density, removable inlays 
that are directly molded to the patient's foot or a model of the 
patient's foot or directly carved from a patient-specific, rectified 
electronic model and that are made of a suitable material with 
regard to the patient's condition. 
B. Coverage
1. Limitations
For each individual, coverage of the footwear and inserts is 
limited to one of the following within one calendar year: 
•
No more than one pair of custom-molded shoes 
(including inserts provided with such shoes) and two
additional pairs of inserts; or 
•
No more than one pair of depth shoes and three pairs
of inserts (not including the noncustomized removable
inserts provided with such shoes).
2. Coverage of Diabetic Shoes and Brace
Orthopedic shoes, as stated in the Medicare Claims 
Processing Manual, Chapter 20, "Durable Medical Equipment, 
Surgical Dressings and Casts, Orthotics and Artificial Limbs, 
and Prosthetic Devices," generally are not covered. This 
exclusion does not apply to orthopedic shoes that are an 
integral part of a leg brace. In situations in which an individual 
qualifies for both diabetic shoes and a leg brace, these items 
are covered separately. Thus, the diabetic shoes may be 
covered if the requirements for this section are met, while the 
brace may be covered if the requirements of §130 are met. 
3. Substitution of Modifications for Inserts
An individual may substitute modification(s) of custom-molded 
or depth shoes instead of obtaining a pair(s) of inserts in any 
combination. Payment for the modification(s) may not exceed 
the limit set for the inserts for which the individual is entitled. 
The following is a list of the most common shoe modifications 
available, but it is not meant as an exhaustive list of the 
modifications available for diabetic shoes: 
Rigid Rocker Bottoms - These are exterior elevations 
with apex positions for 51 percent to 75 percent distance 
measured from the back end of the heel. The apex is a 
narrowed or pointed end of an anatomical structure. The 
apex must be positioned behind the metatarsal heads 
and tapered off sharply to the front tip of the sole. Apex 
height helps to eliminate pressure at the metatarsal 
heads. Rigidity is ensured by the steel in the shoe. The 
heel of the shoe tapers off in the back in order to cause 
the heel to strike in the middle of the heel; 
•
Roller Bottoms (Sole or Bar) - These are the same as 
rocker bottoms, but the heel is tapered from the apex to 
the front tip of the sole; 
•
Metatarsal Bars - An exterior bar is placed behind the
metatarsal heads in order to remove pressure from 
the metatarsal heads. The bars are of various shapes,
heights, and construction depending on the exact 
purpose;
Wedges (Posting) - Wedges are either of hind foot,
fore foot, or both and may be in the middle or to the
side. The function is to shift or transfer weight bearing 
upon standing or during ambulation to the opposite 
side for added support, stabilization, equalized weight 
distribution, or balance; and
Offset Heels - This is a heel flanged at its base either 
in the middle, to the side, or a combination, that is 
then extended upward to the shoe in order to stabilize 
extreme positions of the hind foot. 
643 
Other modifications to diabetic shoes include, but are not 
limited to flared heels, Velcro closures, and inserts for missing 
toes. 
4. Separate Inserts
Inserts may be covered and dispensed independently of 
diabetic shoes if the supplier of the shoes verifies in writing 
that the patient has appropriate footwear into which the insert 
can be placed. This footwear must meet the definitions found 
above for depth shoes and custom-molded shoes. 
C. Certification
The need for diabetic shoes must be certified by a physician 
who is a doctor of medicine or a doctor of osteopathy and who 
is responsible for diagnosing and treating the patient's diabetic 
systemic condition through a comprehensive plan of care. This 
managing physician must: 
•
Document in the patient's medical record that the patient 
has diabetes; 
Certify that the patient is being treated under a
comprehensive plan of care for diabetes, and that the
patient needs diabetic shoes; and 
Document in the patient's record that the patient has one 
or more of the following conditions: 
Peripheral neuropathy with evidence of callus 
formation; 
History of pre-ulcerative calluses; 
History of previous ulceration; 
Foot deformity; 
•
Previous amputation of the foot or part of the foot; or
Poor circulation.
D. Prescription
Following certification by the physician managing the patient's 
systemic diabetic condition, a podiatrist or other qualified 
physician who is knowledgeable in the fitting of diabetic shoes 
and inserts may prescribe the particular type of footwear 
necessary. 
E. Furnishing Footwear
The footwear must be fitted and furnished by a podiatrist or 
other qualified individual such as a pedorthist, an orthotist, 
or a prosthetist. The certifying physician may not furnish the 
diabetic shoes unless the certifying physician is the only 
qualified individual in the area. It is left to the discretion of each 
A/B MAC (B) to determine the meaning of "in the area." 
100-2, Chapter-15, 150
Dental Services 
As indicated under the general exclusions from coverage 
in 42 CFR 411.15(i), and subject to exceptions, items and 
services in connection with the care, treatment, filling, removal, 
or replacement of teeth or structures directly supporting the 
teeth are not covered. "Structures directly supporting the 
teeth" means the periodontium, which includes the gingivae, 
dentogingival junction, periodontal membrane, cementum of 
the teeth, and alveolar process. Two statutory exceptions to 
this pcilicy allow for Medicare payment for inpatient hospital 
services in connection with the provision of dental services if 
the individual, because of the individual's underlying medical 
condition and clinical status or because of the severity of the 
dental procedure, requires hospitalization in connection with 
the provision of such services. 
644 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
There are some other instances where medical services 
necessary to diagnose and treat the individual's underlying 
medical condition may require the performance of certain 
dental services and the dental exclusion may not apply. Dental 
services that are inextricably linked to, and substantially 
related and integral to the clinical success of, certain covered 
medical services are not excluded. Such non-excluded dental 
services could include dental and oral examinations as well 
as medically necessary diagnostic and treatment services 
to eliminate an oral or dental infection. We note that the 
necessary treatment to eradicate an infection may not include 
the totality of recommended dental services for a given patient. 
For example, if an infected tooth is identified in a patient 
requiring an organ transplant, cardiac valve replacement, or 
valvuloplasty procedure, the necessary treatment would be to 
eradicate the infection, which could result in the tooth being 
extracted. Additional dental services, such as a dental implant 
or crown, may not be considered immediately necessary 
to eliminate or eradicate the infection or its source prior to 
surgery. Therefore, such additional services would not be 
inextricably linked to, and substantially related and integral 
to the clinical success of, the organ transplant, cardiac valve 
replacement, or valvuloplasty services. As such, no Medicare 
payment would be made for the additional services that are 
not immediately necessary prior to surgery to eliminate or 
eradicate the infection. 
Payment may be made under Medicare Parts A and B 
for dental services, prior to or, in certain circumstances, 
contemporaneously with, certain covered medical services 
furnished in the inpatient or outpatient setting. Scenarios in 
which Medicare payment for dental services is not excluded 
include, but are not limited to, the examples below. 
EXAMPLE 1: 
Dental or oral examination performed as part of a 
comprehensive workup in either the inpatient or outpatient 
setting prior to Medicare-covered organ transplant, cardiac 
valve replacement, or valvuloplasty procedures; and, medically 
necessary diagnostic and treatment services to eliminate an 
oral or dental infection prior to, or contemporaneously with, the 
organ transplant, cardiac valve replacement, or valvuloplasty 
procedure. For purposes of this manual only, hematopoietic 
stem cell and bone marrow transplants have a similar risk of 
infection to organ transplants, and an oral examination and 
subsequent necessary diagnostic and treatment services, 
performed in either the inpatient or outpatient setting would be 
payable under this example. (The term "organ transplant" may 
not be considered to include bone marrow or hematopoietic 
stem cell transplants in all contexts. These services are not 
considered organs for purposes of the definition of organs 
in 42 CFR 486.302 or Medicare payment policies for organ 
procurement organizations.) 
EXAMPLE 2: 
The reconstruction of a ridge performed as a result of and 
at the same time as the surgical removal of a tumor. The 
reconstruction of a ridge performed primarily to prepare the 
mouth for dentures is a noncovered procedure. 
EXAMPLE 3: 
The stabilization or immobilization of teeth in connection with 
the reduction of a jaw fracture, and dental splints only when 
used in conjunction with covered treatment of a covered 
medical condition such as dislocated jaw joints. 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
EXAMPLE 4: 
The extraction of teeth to prepare the jaw for radiation 
treatment of neoplastic disease. 
See Pub 100-01, the Medicare General Information, Eligibility, 
and Entitlement Manual, Chapter 5, Definitions for provisions 
applicable to doctors of dental surgery or dental medicine. 
CMS makes payment for covered dental services furnished 
by a physician, including a doctor of dental medicine or dental 
surgery, or a non-physician practitioner in accordance with 
state law and scope of practice in the state where the service 
is furnished. 
Medicare Part A and Part B payment is made for dental 
services that are inextricably linked to, and substantially 
related and integral to the clinical success of, certain covered 
medical services. Integration between the health care 
professionals furnishing dental and other covered services is 
a key component in assessing whether dental services are 
inextricably linked to, and substantially related and integral 
to the clinical success of, other covered medical services. 
This integration could take the form of a referral or other 
exchange of information between the physicians, nonphysician 
practitioners, or other practitioners involved in the delivery of 
dental and other covered medical services. 
This coordination should occur between the health care 
professionals furnishing the dental and other covered services 
regardless of whether both individuals are affiliated with 
or employed by the same entity. If there is no exchange 
of information, or integration, between the health care 
professionals regarding the dental services, then there would 
not be an inextricable link between the dental and covered 
medical services within the meaning of our regulation at § 
411.15(i)(3). This is because the professionals would not have 
the necessary information to decide that the dental service(s) 
is inextricably linked to a covered medical service, and 
therefore, not subject to the statutory payment exclusion under 
section 1862(a)(12) of the Act. 
Payment may also be made for covered dental services and 
supplies furnished incident to the professional services of the 
billing physician or practitioner by auxiliary personnel. For 
example, services performed by a dental technician, dental 
hygienist, dental therapist, or registered nurse who is under 
the direct supervision of the physician, including a dentist, are 
covered if the services meet the requirements for "incident to" 
services as described in 42 CFR § 410.26. 
Ancillary services and supplies furnished incident to covered 
dental services are also not excluded, and Medicare 
payment may be made under Part A or Part B, as applicable, 
regardless of whether the service is performed in the 
inpatient or outpatient setting, including, but not limited to 
the administration of anesthesia, diagnostic X-rays, use 
of operating room, and other related, otherwise covered 
procedures. 
No payment is made for dental services that may be 
inextricably linked to, and substantially related and integral 
to the clinical success of other non-covered services. Such 
services remain subject to the statutory exclusion at § 
1862(a)(12) for items and services in connection with the 
care, treatment, filling, removal, or replacement of teeth or 
structures directly supporting the teeth. More specifically, 
dental services inextricably linked to a non-covered medical 
service(s) are not covered or payable. For example, an 
alveoplasty (the surgical improvement of the shape and 
condition of the alveolar process) and frenectomy are excluded 
from coverage when either of these procedures is performed 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
in connection with an excluded service, e.g., the preparation 
of the mouth for dentures. Similarly, with rare exception, the 
removal of a torus palatinus (a bony protuberance of the hard 
palate) is performed in connection with an excluded service, 
i.e., the preparation of the mouth for dentures. Under such
circumstances, Medicare does not pay for this procedure.
MACs have the flexibility to determine on a claim-by-claim 
basis whether a patient's circumstances do or do not fit within 
the terms of the statutory preclusion or exceptions specified in 
section 1862(a)(12) of the Act and our regulation at 42 CFR § 
411.15(i). These policies do not prevent a MAC from making 
a determination that payment can be made for dental services 
in other circumstances under which the dental services are 
inextricably linked to, and substantially related and integral to 
the clinical success of, certain covered medical services, but 
are not specifically addressed in final rules, manual provisions, 
and the finalized amendments to§ 411.15(i). 
100-2, Chapter-15, 150.1
Treatment of Temporomandibular Joint (TMJ) 
Syndrome 
There are a wide variety of conditions that can be 
characterized as TMJ, and an equally wide variety of methods 
for treating these conditions. Many of the procedures fall 
within the Medicare program's statutory exclusion that 
prohibits payment for items and services that have not 
been demonstrated to be reasonable and necessary for the 
diagnosis and treatment of illness or injury (§1862(a)(1) of 
the Act). Other services and appliances used to treat TMJ fall 
within the Medicare program's statutory exclusion at 1862(a) 
(12), which prohibits payment "for services in connection with 
the care, treatment, filling, removal, or replacement of teeth 
or structures directly supporting teeth .... " For these reasons, a 
diagnosis of TMJ on a claim is insufficient. The actual condition 
or symptom must be determined. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 230
Practice of Physical Therapy, Occupational 
Therapy, and Speech-Language Pathology 
A. Group Therapy Services. Contractors pay for outpatient
physical therapy services (which includes outpatient speech­
language pathology services) and outpatient occupational
therapy services provided simultaneously to two or more
individuals by a practitioner as group therapy services (97150).
The individuals can be, but need not be performing the same
activity. The physician or therapist involved in group therapy
services must be in constant attendance, but one-on-one
patient contact is not required.
B. Therapy Students
1. General
Only the services of the therapist can be billed and paid under 
Medicare Part B. The services performed by a student are not 
reimbursed even if provided under "line of sight" supervision 
of the therapist; however, the presence of the student "in 
the room" does not make the service unbillable. Pay for the 
direct (one-to-one) patient contact services of the physician or 
therapist provided to Medicare Part B patients. Group therapy 
services performed by a therapist or physician may be billed 
when a student is also present "in the room". 
EXAMPLES 
Therapists may bill and be paid for the provision of services in 
the following scenarios: 
645 
•
The qualified practitioner is present and in the room 
for the entire session. The student participates in the
delivery of services when the qualified practitioner is 
directing the service, making the skilled judgment, and is 
responsible for the assessment and treatment. 
The qualified practitioner is present in the room guiding 
the student in service delivery when the therapy student
and the therapy assistant student are participating in the
provision of services, and the practitioner is not engaged
in treating another patient or doing other tasks at the
same time.
The qualified practitioner is responsible for the services
and as such, signs all documentation. (A student may, of 
course, also sign but it is not necessary since the Part B 
payment is for the clinician's service, not for the student's
services). 
2. Therapy Assistants as Clinical Instructors
Physical therapist assistants and occupational therapy 
assistants are not precluded from serving as clinical instructors 
for therapy students, while providing services within their 
scope of work and performed under the direction and 
supervision of a licensed physical or occupational therapist to 
a Medicare beneficiary. 
3. Services Provided Under Part A and Part B
The payment methodologies for Part A and B therapy 
services rendered by a student are different. Under the MPFS 
(Medicare Part B), Medicare pays for services provided by 
physicians and practitioners that are specifically authorized 
by statute. Students do not meet the definition of practitioners 
under Medicare Part B. Under SNF PPS, payments are 
based upon the case mix or Resource Utilization Group 
(RUG) category that describes the patient. In the rehabilitation 
groups, the number of therapy minutes delivered to the patient 
determines the RUG category. Payment levels for each 
category are based upon the costs of caring for patients in 
each group rather than providing specific payment for each 
therapy service as is done in Medicare Part B. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 231
Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR) Program Services 
Furnished On or After January 1, 2010 
Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) means a physician-supervised 
program for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
and certain other chronic respiratory diseases designed to 
optimize physical and social performance and autonomy. 
Effective January 1, 2010, Medicare Part B pays for PR if 
specific criteria are met by the Medicare beneficiary, the PR 
program itself, the setting in which it is administered, and the 
physician administering the program, as outlined below. 
Covered Conditions: 
As specified in 42 CFR 410.47, Medicare Part B covers PR for 
beneficiaries: 
•
With moderate to very severe COPD (defined as
GOLD classification 11, Ill, and IV), when referred by the
physician treating the chronic respiratory disease;
Who have had confirmed or suspected COVID-19 and
experience persistent symptoms that include respiratory
dysfunction for at least four weeks (effective January 1,
2022);
•
Additional medical indications for coverage for PR 
program services may be established through a national 
coverage determination (NCO).
646 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
PR must include all of the following components: 
Physician-prescribed exercise. Physician-prescribed exercise 
means aerobic exercise combined with other types of 
exercise (such as conditioning, breathing retraining, step, and 
strengthening) as determined to be appropriate for individual 
patients by a physician. Each PR session must include 
physician-prescribed exercise. 
Education or training that is closely and clearly related to 
the individual's care and treatment which is tailored to the 
individual's needs and assists in achievement of goals 
toward independence in activities of daily living, adaptation 
to limitations and improved quality of life. Education must 
include information on respiratory problem management and, if 
appropriate, brief smoking cessation counseling. 
Psychosocial assessment means an evaluation of an 
individual's mental and emotional functioning as it relates to 
the individual's rehabilitation or respiratory condition which 
includes an assessment of those aspects of an individual's 
family and home situation that affects the individual's 
rehabilitation treatment, and psychosocial evaluation of 
the individual's response to and rate of progress under the 
treatment plan. 
Outcomes assessment means an evaluation of progress as 
it relates to the individual's rehabilitation which includes the 
following: (i) Evaluations, based on patient-centered outcomes, 
which must be measured by the physician or program staff at 
the beginning and end of the program. Evaluations measured 
by program staff must be considered by the physician in 
developing and/or reviewing individualized treatment plans. (ii) 
Objective clinical measures of exercise performance and self­
reported measures of shortness of breath and behavior. 
Individualized treatment plan. Individualized treatment plan 
means a written plan tailored to each individual patient that 
includes all of the following: (i) A description of the individual's 
diagnosis. (ii) The type, amount, frequency, and duration of the 
items and services furnished under the plan. (iii) The goals set 
for the individual under the plan. The individualized treatment 
plan detailing how components are utilized for each patient, 
must be established, reviewed, and signed by a physician 
every 30 days. 
As specified at 42 CFR 410.47(e), the number of PR sessions 
are limited to a maximum of 2 1-hour sessions per day for 
up to 36 sessions over up to 36 weeks with the option for 
an additional 36 sessions over an extended period of time if 
approved by the Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC). 
PR Settings: 
Medicare Part B pays for PR in a physician's office or a 
hospital outpatient setting. All settings must have the following: 
(i) A physician immediately available and accessible for 
medical consultations and emergencies at all times when items
and services are being furnished under the program. This 
provision is satisfied if the physician meets the requirements 
for direct supervision for physician office services, at 42
CFR 410.26, and for hospital outpatient services at 42 CFR
410.27, and (ii) The necessary cardiopulmonary, emergency, 
diagnostic, and therapeutic life-saving equipment accepted by
the medical community as medically necessary (for example,
oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment, and 
defibrillator) to treat chronic respiratory disease.
PR Physician Standards: 
Medical Director. Medical director means the physician who 
oversees the PR program at a particular site. The medical 
director is the physician responsible for a PR program and, 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
in consultation with staff, is involved in directing the progress 
of individuals in the program and must possess all of the 
following: (1) Expertise in the management of individuals with 
respiratory pathophysiology. (2) Cardiopulmonary training 
in basic life support or advanced cardiac life support. (3) Be 
licensed to practice medicine in the State in which the PR 
program is offered. 
Supervising Physician. Supervising physician means a 
physician that is immediately available and accessible for 
medical consultations and medical emergencies at all times 
items and services are being furnished to individuals under 
PR programs. Physicians acting as the supervising physician 
must possess all of the following: (1) Expertise in the 
management of individuals with respiratory pathophysiology. 
(2) Cardiopulmonary training in basic life support or advanced 
cardiac life support. (3) Be licensed to practice medicine in the 
State in which the PR program is offered.
(See Publication 100-04, Claims Processing Manual, chapter 
32, section 140.4, for PR claims processing, coding, and billing 
requirements.) 
100-2, Chapter-15, 232
Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR) and Intensive Cardiac 
Rehabilitation (ICR) Services Furnished On or 
After January 1, 2010 
Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) means a physician-supervised 
program that furnishes physician prescribed exercise; cardiac 
risk factor modification, including education, counseling, 
and behavioral intervention; psychosocial assessment; and 
outcomes assessment. Intensive cardiac rehabilitation (ICR) 
program means a physician-supervised program that furnishes 
CR and has shown, in peer-reviewed published research, that 
it improves patients' cardiovascular disease through specific 
outcome measurements described in 42 CFR 410.49(c). 
Effective January 1, 2010, Medicare Part B pays for CR/ICR if 
specific criteria are met by the Medicare beneficiary, the CR/ 
ICR program itself, the setting in which it is administered, and 
the physician administering the program, as outlined below. 
Covered Conditions: 
As specified in 42 CFR 410.49, Medicare Part B covers CR 
and ICR for beneficiaries who have experienced one or more 
of the following: 
An acute myocardial infarction (Ml) within the preceding 
12 months; 
•
A coronary artery bypass surgery;
•
Current stable angina pectoris; 
Heart valve repair or replacement; 
•
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)
or coronary stenting;
•
A heart or heart-lung transplant.
Stable, chronic heart failure defined as patients with
left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or less and New 
York Heart Association (NYHA) class II to IV symptoms
despite being on optimal heart failure therapy for at least
6 weeks, on or after February 18, 2014 for CR and on or 
after February 9, 2018 for ICR; or, 
Other cardiac conditions as specified through a national 
coverage determination (NCD). The NCD process 
may also be used to specify non-coverage of a cardiac 
condition for ICR if coverage is not supported by clinical
evidence.
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
CR and ICR must include all of the following components: 
Physician-prescribed exercise. Physician-prescribed exercise 
means aerobic exercise combined with other types of exercise 
(such as strengthening and stretching) as determined to be 
appropriate for individual patients by a physician each day CR/ 
ICR items and services are furnished. 
Cardiac risk factor modification. Cardiac risk factor 
modification, including education, counseling, and behavioral 
intervention, tailored to the individual's needs. 
Psychosocial assessment. Psychosocial assessment 
means an evaluation of an individual's mental and emotional 
functioning as it relates to the individual's rehabilitation which 
includes an assessment of those aspects of an individual's 
family and home situation that affects the individual's 
rehabilitation treatment, and psychosocial evaluation of 
the individual's response to and rate of progress under the 
treatment plan. Outcomes assessment. 
Outcomes assessment means an evaluation of progress as it 
relates to the individual's rehabilitation which includes all of the 
following: (i) Evaluations, based on patient-centered outcomes, 
which must be measured by the physician or program staff at 
the beginning and end of the program. Evaluations measured 
by program staff must be considered by the physician in 
developing and/or reviewing individualized treatment plans. (ii) 
Objective clinical measures of exercise performance and self­
reported measures of exertion and behavior. 
Individualized treatment plan. Individualized treatment plan 
means a written plan tailored to each individual patient that 
includes all of the following: (i) A description of the individual's 
diagnosis. (ii) The type, amount, frequency, and duration of the 
items and services furnished under the plan. (iii) The goals set 
for the individual under the plan. The individualized treatment 
plan detailing how components are utilized for each patient, 
must be established, reviewed, and signed by a physician 
every 30 days. 
As specified at 42 CFR 410.49(f)(1 ), the number of CR 
sessions are limited to a maximum of 2 1-hour sessions per 
day for up to 36 sessions over up to 36 weeks with the option 
for an additional 36 sessions over an extended period of time if 
approved by the Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC). 
As specified at 42 CFR 410.49(f)(2), ICR sessions are limited 
to 72 1-hour sessions (as defined in section 1848(b)(5) of the 
Act), up to 6 sessions per day, over a period of up to 18 weeks. 
CR and ICR Settings: 
Medicare Part B pays for CR and ICR in a physician's office or 
a hospital outpatient setting. All settings must have a physician 
immediately available and accessible for medical consultations 
and emergencies at all times when items and services are 
being furnished under the program. This provision is satisfied if 
the physician meets the requirements for direct supervision for 
physician office services, at 42 CFR 410.26, and for hospital 
outpatient services at 42 CFR 410.27. 
Standards for an ICR Program: 
To be approved as an ICR program, a program must 
demonstrate through peer-reviewed, published research 
that it has accomplished one or more of the following for its 
patients: (i) Positively affected the progression of coronary 
heart disease. (ii) Reduced the need for coronary bypass 
surgery. (iii) Reduced the need for percutaneous coronary 
interventions. 
An ICR program must also demonstrate through peer­
reviewed published research that it accomplished a statistically 
647 
significant reduction in 5 or more of the following measures 
for patients from their levels before CR services to after CR 
services: (i) Low density lipoprotein. (ii) Triglycerides. (iii) Body 
mass index. (iv) Systolic blood pressure. (v) Diastolic blood 
pressure. (vi) The need for cholesterol, blood pressure, and 
diabetes medications. 
A list of approved ICR programs, identified through the NCO 
process, will be listed in the Federal Register and is available 
on the CMS website at https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/ 
Medicare-General- lnformation/MedicareApprovedFacilitie/ 
ICR. All prospective ICR sites must apply to enroll as an ICR 
program site using the designated forms as specified at 42 
CFR 424.510, and report specialty code 31 to be identified 
as an enrolled ICR supplier. For purposes of appealing an 
adverse determination concerning site approval, an ICR site is 
considered a supplier (or prospective supplier) as defined in 42 
CFR 498.2. 
CR and ICR Physician Standards: 
Medical Director. Medical director means the physician who 
oversees the CR or ICR program at a particular site. The 
medical director is the physician responsible for a CR or ICR 
program and, in consultation with staff, is involved in directing 
the progress of individuals in the program and must possess 
all of the following: (1) Expertise in the management of 
individuals with cardiac pathophysiology. (2) Cardiopulmonary 
training in basic life support or advanced cardiac life support. 
(3) Be licensed to practice medicine in the State in which the 
CR or ICR program is offered.
Supervising Physician. Supervising physician means a 
physician that is immediately available and accessible for 
medical consultations and medical emergencies at all times 
items and services are being furnished to individuals under 
CR and ICR programs. Physicians acting as the supervising 
physician must possess all of the following: (1) Expertise in 
the management of individuals with cardiac pathophysiology. 
(2) Cardiopulmonary training in basic life support or advanced 
cardiac life support. (3) Be licensed to practice medicine in the
State in which the CR or ICR program is offered.
(See Pub. 100-03, Medicare National Coverage 
Determinations Manual, Chapter 1, Part 1, section 20.10.1, 
Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Chapter 
32, section 140, Pub. 100-08, Medicare Program Integrity 
Manual, Chapter 10, section 10.2.2.5, for CR and ICR claims 
processing, coding, and billing requirements.) 
100-2, Chapter-15, 270
Telehealth Services 
For information on telehealth services, see Pub. 1 00-04, 
Medicare Claims Processing Manual, chapter 12, section 190. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 280.5
Annual Wellness Visit (AWV) Providing 
Personalized Prevention Plan Services (PPPS) 
A. General
Pursuant to section 4103 of the Affordable Care Act of 201 O 
(the ACA), the; Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
(CMS) amended section 42 CFR 411.15(a)(1) and 42 CFR 
411.15(k)(15) (list of examples of routine physical examinations 
excluded from coverage), effective for services furnished 
on or after January 1, 2011. This expanded coverage, as 
established at 42 CFR 410.15, is subject to certain eligibility 
and other limitations that allow payment for an annual wellness 
648 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
visit (AWV) providing personalized prevention plan services 
(PPPS), when performed by a health professional (as defined 
in this section), for an individual who is no longer within 12 
months after the effective date of his/her first Medicare Part 
B coverage period, and has not received either an initial 
preventive physical examination (IPPE) or an AWV within the 
past 12 months. Medicare coinsurance and Part B deductibles 
do not apply. 
The AWV will include the establishment of, or update to, the 
individual's medical/family history, measurement of his/her 
height, weight, body-mass index (BMI) or waist circumference, 
and blood pressure (BP), with the goal of health promotion 
and disease detection and encouraging patients to obtain 
the screening and preventive services that may already be 
covered and paid for under Medicare Part B. Definitions 
relative to the AWV are included below. 
Coverage is available for an AWV that meets the following 
requirements: 
1. It is performed by a health professional; and, 
2. It is furnished to an eligible beneficiary who is no longer 
within 12 months after the effective date of his/her first 
Medicare Part B coverage period, and he/she has not 
received either an IPPE or an AWV providing PPPS
within the past 12 months.
Sections 4103 and 4104 of the ACA also provide for a 
waiver of the Medicare coinsurance and Part B deductible 
requirements for an AWV effective for services furnished on or 
after January 1, 2011. 
B. Definitions Relative to the AWV:
Detection of any cognitive impairment: The assessment 
of an individual's cognitive function by direct observation, 
with due consideration of information obtained by way of 
patient reports, concerns raised by family members, friends, 
caretakers, or others. 
Eligible beneficiary: An individual who is no longer within 12 
months after the effective date of his/her first Medicare Part B 
coverage period and who has not received either an IPPE or 
an AWV providing PPPS within the past 12 months. 
Establishment of, or an update to, the individual's 
medical/family history: 
At a minimum, the collection and documentation of the 
following: 
a. Past medical and surgical history, including experiences
with illnesses, hospital stays, operations, allergies,
injuries, and treatments.
b. Use or exposure to medications and supplements,
including calcium and vitamins.
c.
Medical events in the beneficiary's parents and any
siblings and children, including diseases that may be 
hereditary or place the individual at increased risk. 
First AWV providing PPPS: The provision of the following 
services to an eligible beneficiary by a health professional 
that include, and take into account the results of, a health risk 
assessment as those terms are defined in this section: 
a. Review (and administration if needed) of a health risk
assessment (as defined in this section).
b. Establishment of an individual's medical/family history. 
c. Establishment of a list of current providers and suppliers
that are regularly involved in providing medical care to 
the individual.
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
d. Measurement of an individual's height, weight, BMI
(or waist circumference, if appropriate), BP, and other
routine measurements as deemed appropriate, based on
the beneficiary's medical/family history. 
e. Detection of any cognitive impairment that the individual
may have as defined in this section.
f.
Review of the individual's potential (risk factors) for
depression, including current or past experiences with 
depression or other mood disorders, based on the use 
of an appropriate screening instrument for persons 
without a current diagnosis of depression, which the
health professional may select from various available 
standardized screening tests designed for this purpose
and recognized by national medical professional
organizations.
g. Review of the individual's functional ability and level
of safety based on direct observation, or the use
of appropriate screening questions or a screening 
questionnaire, which the health professional may 
select from various available screening questions or 
standardized questionnaires designed for this purpose 
and recognized by national professional medical
organizations.
h. Establishment of the following:
1.
A written screening schedule for the individual,
such as a checklist for the next 5 to 10 years, as 
appropriate, based on recommendations of the United
States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and
the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices
(ACIP), and the individual's health risk assessment
(as that term is defined in this section), the individual's
health status, screening history, and age-appropriate
preventive services covered by Medicare. 
2. A list of risk factors and conditions for which primary, 
secondary, or tertiary interventions are recommended 
or are underway for the individual, including any 
mental health conditions or any such risk factors or 
conditions that have been identified through an IPPE,
and a list of treatment options and their associated 
risks and benefits. 
i.
Furnishing of personalized health advice to the individual 
and a referral, as appropriate, to health education or 
preventive counseling services or programs aimed
at reducing identified risk factors and improving self­
management, or community-based lifestyle interventions 
to reduce health risks and promote self-management and
wellness, including weight loss, physical activity, smoking
cessation, fall prevention, and nutrition.
j. 
Any other element determined appropriate through the
National Coverage Determination (NCD) process.
Health professional: 
a. A physician who is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy
(as defined in section 1861 (r)(1) of the Social Security
Act (the Act); or,
b. A physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse
specialist (as defined in section 1861(aa)(5) of the Act); 
or, 
c. A medical professional (including a health educator, 
registered dietitian, or nutrition professional or other 
licensed practitioner) or a team of such medical 
professionals, working under the direct supervision (as 
defined in 42CFR 410.32(b)(3)(ii)) of a physician as
defined in this section. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Health Risk Assessment means, for the purposes of 
the annual wellness visit, an evaluation tool that meets the 
following criteria: 
a.
collects self-reported information about the beneficiary. 
b.
can be administered independently by the beneficiary or
administered by a health professional prior to or as part
of the AWV encounter. 
c.
is appropriately tailored to and takes into account the 
communication needs of underserved populations,
persons with limited English proficiency, and persons
with health literacy needs. 
d.
takes no more than 20 minutes to complete.
e. addresses, at a minimum, the following topics: 
1.
demographic data, including but not limited to age,
gender, race, and ethnicity.
2.
self-assessment of health status, frailty, and physical 
functioning. 
3. psychosocial risks, including but not limited to, 
depression/life satisfaction, stress, anger, loneliness/ 
social isolation, pain, and fatigue. 
4.
Behavioral risks, including but not limited to, tobacco 
use, physical activity, nutrition and oral health, alcohol 
consumption, sexual health, motor vehicle safety 
(seat belt use), and home safety. 
5.
Activities of daily living (ADLs), including but not 
limited to, dressing, feeding, toileting, grooming,
physical ambulation (including balance/risk of falls),
and bathing.
6. I nstrumental activities of daily living (I ADLs), including
but not limited to, shopping, food preparation, using
the telephone, housekeeping, laundry, mode of
transportation, responsibility for own medications, and
ability to handle finances. 
Review of the individual's functional ability and level of 
safety: At a minimum, includes assessment of the following 
topics: 
a.
Hearing impairment, 
b. Ability to successfully perform activities of daily living, 
c. Fall risk, and, 
d. Home safety. 
Subsequent AWV providing PPPS: T he provision of 
the following services to an eligible beneficiary by a health 
professional that include, and take into account the results of 
an updated health risk assessment, as those terms are defined 
in this section: 
a. Review (and administration if needed) of an updated
health risk assessment (as defined in this section).
b.
An update of the individual's medical/family history. 
c. An update of the list of current providers and suppliers 
that are regularly involved in providing medical care to 
the individual, as that list was developed for the first 
AWV providing PPPS or the previous subsequent AWV
providing PPPS.
d. Measurement of an individual's weight (or waist 
circumference), BP, and other routine measurements as 
deemed appropriate, based on the individual's medical/
family history. 
e. Detection of any cognitive impairment that the individual 
may have as defined in this section. 
f. 
An update to the following: 
649 
. 
. 
1. The written screening schedule for the individual
as that schedule is defined in this section, that was
developed at the first AWV providing PPPS, and, 
2. The list of risk factors and conditions for which primary, 
secondary, or tertiary interventions are recommended 
or are under way for the individual, as that list was 
developed at the first AWV providing PPPS or the 
previous subsequentAWV providing PPPS. 
g. Furnishing of personalized health advice to the individual
and a referral, as appropriate, to health education or 
preventive counseling services or programs as that 
advice and related services are defined for the first AWV 
providing PPPS.
h. Any other element determined appropriate by the
Secretary through the NCO process.
See Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, 
chapter 18, section 140, for detailed claims processing and 
billing instructions. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 290
Foot Care 
A. Treatment of Subluxation of Foot
Subluxations of the foot are defined as partial dislocations or 
displacements of joint surfaces, tendons ligaments, or muscles 
of the foot. Surgical or nonsurgical treatments undertaken for 
the sole purpose of correcting a subluxated structure in the 
foot as an isolated entity are not covered. 
However, medical or surgical treatment of subluxation of the 
ankle joint (talo-crural joint) is covered. In addition, reasonable 
and necessary medical or surgical services, diagnosis, or 
treatment for medical conditions that have resulted from or are 
associated with partial displacement of structures is covered. 
For example, if a patient has osteoarthritis that has resulted 
in a partial displacement of joints in the foot, and the primary 
treatment is for the osteoarthritis, coverage is provided. 
B. Exclusions from Coverage
The following foot care services are generally excluded from 
coverage under both Part A and Part B. (See §290. F and 
§290.G for instructions on applying foot care exclusions.)
1. Treatment of Flat Foot
The term "flat foot" is defined as a condition in which one or 
more arches of the foot have flattened out. Services or devices 
directed toward the care or correction of such conditions, 
including the prescription of supportive devices, are not covered. 
2. Routine Foot Care
Except as provided above, routine foot care is excluded from 
coverage. Services that normally are considered routine and 
not covered by Medicare include the following: 
•
The cutting or removal of corns and calluses;
The trimming, cutting, clipping, or debriding of nails; and 
•
Other hygienic and preventive maintenance care, such
as cleaning and soaking the feet, the use of skin creams
to maintain skin tone of either ambulatory or bedfast 
patients, and any other service performed in the absence
of localized illness, injury, or symptoms involving the foot.
3. Supportive Devices for Feet
Orthopedic shoes and other supportive devices for the feet 
generally are not covered. However, this exclusion does not 
apply to such a shoe if it is an integral part of a leg brace, and 
its expense is included as part of the cost of the brace. Also, 
650 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
this exclusion does not apply to therapeutic shoes furnished to 
diabetics. 
C. Exceptions to Routine Foot Care Exclusion
1. Necessary and Integral Part of Otherwise Covered
Services
In certain circumstances, services ordinarily considered to be 
routine may be covered if they are performed as a necessary 
and integral part of otherwise covered services, such as 
diagnosis and treatment of ulcers, wounds, or infections. 
2. Treatment of Warts on Foot
The treatment of warts (including plantar warts) on the foot 
is covered to the same extent as services provided for the 
treatment of warts located elsewhere on the body. 
3. Presence of Systemic Condition
The presence of a systemic condition such as metabolic, 
neurologic, or peripheral vascular disease may require 
scrupulous foot care by a professional that in the absence 
of such condition(s) would be considered routine (and, 
therefore, excluded from coverage). Accordingly, foot care 
that would otherwise be considered routine may be covered 
when systemic condition(s) result in severe circulatory 
embarrassment or areas of diminished sensation in the 
individual's legs or feet. (See subsection A.) 
In these instances, certain foot care procedures that otherwise 
are considered routine (e.g., cutting or removing corns and 
calluses, or trimming, cutting, clipping, or debriding nails) may 
pose a hazard when performed by a nonprofessional person 
on patients with such systemic conditions. (See §290.G for 
procedural instructions.) 
4. Mycotic Nails
In the absence of a systemic condition, treatment of mycotic 
nails may be covered. 
The treatment of mycotic nails for an ambulatory patient 
is covered only when the physician attending the patient's 
mycotic condition documents that (1) there is clinical evidence 
of mycosis of the toenail, and (2) the patient has marked 
limitation of ambulation, pain, or secondary infection resulting 
from the thickening and dystrophy of the infected toenail plate. 
The treatment of mycotic nails for a nonambulatory patient 
is covered only when the physician attending the patient's 
mycotic condition documents that (1) there is clinical evidence 
of mycosis of the toenail, and (2) the patient suffers from 
pain or secondary infection resulting from the thickening and 
dystrophy of the infected toenail plate. 
For the purpose of these requirements, documentation means 
any written information that is required by the carrier in order 
for services to be covered. Thus, the information submitted 
with claims must be substantiated by information found in 
the patient's medical record. Any information, including that 
contained in a form letter, used for documentation purposes 
is subject to carrier verification in order to ensure that the 
information adequately justifies coverage of the treatment of 
mycotic nails. 
D. Systemic Conditions That Might Justify
Coverage
Although not intended as a comprehensive list, the following 
metabolic, neurologic, and peripheral vascular diseases (with 
synonyms in parentheses) most commonly represent the 
underlying conditions that might justify coverage for routine 
foot care. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Diabetes mellitus • 
Arteriosclerosis obliterans (A.S.O., arteriosclerosis of the 
extremities, occlusive peripheral arteriosclerosis) 
Buerger's disease (thromboangiitis obliterans) 
Chronic thrombophlebitis • 
Peripheral neuropathies involving the feet-
Associated with malnutrition and vitamin deficiency • 
• 
Malnutrition (general, pellagra) 
•
Alcoholism
•
Malabsorption (celiac disease, tropical sprue)
•
Pernicious anemia
Associated with carcinoma • 
Associated with diabetes mellitus • 
Associated with drugs and toxins • 
Associated with multiple sclerosis • 
Associated with uremia (chronic renal disease)• 
Associated with traumatic injury 
Associated with leprosy or neurosyphilis 
Associated with hereditary disorders 
Hereditary sensory radicular neuropathy 
•
Angiokeratoma corporis diffusum (Fabry's)
•
Amyloid neuropathy
When the patient's condition is one of those designated by an 
asterisk (*), routine procedure s are covered only if the patient 
is under the active care of a doctor of medicine or osteopathy 
who documents the condition. 
E. Supportive Devices for Feet
Orthopedic shoes and other supportive devices for the feet 
generally are not covered. However, this exclusion does not 
apply to such a shoe if it is an integral part of a leg brace, and 
its expense is included as part of the cost of the brace. Also, 
this exclusion does not apply to therapeutic shoes furnished to 
diabetics. 
F. Presumption of Coverage
In evaluating whether the routine services can be reimbursed, 
a presumption of coverage may be made where the evidence 
available discloses certain physical and/or clinical findings 
consistent with the diagnosis and indicative of severe 
peripheral involvement. For purposes of applying this 
presumption the following findings are pertinent: 
Class A Findings 
Nontraumatic amputation of foot or integral skeletal portion 
thereof. 
Class B Findings 
Absent posterior tibial pulse; 
Advanced trophic changes as: hair growth (decrease or 
absence) nail changes (thickening) pigmentary changes 
(discoloration) skin texture (thin, shiny) skin color (rubor or 
redness) (Three required); and 
Absent dorsalis pedis pulse. 
CPr- is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Class C Findings 
Claudication; 
Temperature changes (e.g., cold feet); 
Edema; 
Paresthesias (abnormal spontaneous sensations in the feet); 
and 
Burning. 
The presumption of coverage may be applied when the 
physician rendering the routine foot care has identified: 
1. A Class A finding;
2. Two of the Class B findings; or
3. One Class B and two Class C findings
Cases evidencing findings falling short of these alternatives 
may involve podiatric treatment that may constitute covered 
care and should be reviewed by the intermediary's medical 
staff and developed as necessary. 
For purposes of applying the coverage presumption where 
the routine services have been rendered by a podiatrist, the 
contractor may deem the active care requirement met if the 
claim or other evidence available discloses that the patient has 
seen an M.D. or D.O. for treatment and/or evaluation of the 
complicating disease process during the 6-month period prior 
to the rendition of the routine-type services. The intermediary 
may also accept the podiatrist's statement that the diagnosing 
and treating M.D. or D.O. also concurs with the podiatrist's 
findings as to the severity of the peripheral involvement 
indicated. 
Services ordinarily considered routine might also be covered 
if they are performed as a necessary and integral part of 
otherwise covered services, such as diagnosis and treatment 
of diabetic ulcers, wounds, and infections. 
G. Application of Foot Care Exclusions to Physician's
Services
The exclusion of foot care is determined by the nature of 
the service. Thus, payment for an excluded service should 
be denied whether performed by a podiatrist, osteopath, or 
a doctol\J,f medicine, and without regard to the difficulty or 
complexity of the procedure. 
When an itemized bill shows both covered services and 
noncovered services not integrally related to the covered 
service, the portion of charges attributable to the noncovered 
services should be denied. (For example, if an itemized bill 
shows surgery for an ingrown toenail and also removal of 
calluses not necessary for the performance of toe surgery, any 
additional charge attributable to removal of the calluses should 
be denied.) 
In reviewing claims involving foot care, the A/B MAC (B) should 
be alert to the following exceptional situations: 
1. Payment may be made for incidental noncovered
services performed as a necessary and integral part of,
and secondary to, a covered procedure. For example, if 
trimming of toenails is required for application of a cast 
to a fractured foot, the A/B MAC (B) need not allocate
and deny a portion of the charge for the trimming of the 
nails. However, a separately itemized charge for such 
excluded service should be disallowed. When the primary 
procedure is covered the administration of anesthesia
necessary for the performance of such procedure is also
covered.
651 
2. Payment may be made for initial diagnostic services 
performed in connection with a specific symptom or 
complaint if it seems likely that its treatment would be 
covered even though the resulting diagnosis may be one 
requiring only noncovered care. 
The name of the M.D. or D.O. who diagnosed the complicating 
condition must be submitted with the claim. In those cases, 
where active care is required, the approximate date the 
beneficiary was last seen by such physician must also be 
indicated. 
NOTE: Section 939 of P.L. 96-499 removed "warts" from the 
routine foot care exclusion effective July 1, 1981. 
Relatively few claims for routine-type care are anticipated 
considering the severity of conditions contemplated as the 
basis for this exception. Claims for this type of foot care 
should not be paid in the absence of convincing evidence 
that nonprofessional performance of the service would have 
been hazardous for the beneficiary because of an underlying 
systemic disease. The mere statement of a diagnosis such as 
those mentioned in §D above does not of itself indicate the 
severity of the condition. Where development is indicated to 
verify diagnosis and/or severity the A/B MAC (B) should follow 
existing claims processing practices, which may include review 
of A/B MAC (B) history and medical consultation as well as 
physician contacts. 
The rules in §290.F concerning presumption of coverage also 
apply. 
Codes and policies for routine foot care and supportive devices 
for the feet are not exclusively for the use of podiatrists. These 
codes must be used to report foot care services regardless of 
the specialty of the physician who furnishes the services. A/B 
MACs (B) must instruct physicians to use the most appropriate 
code available when billing for routine foot care. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 300
Diabetes Self-Management Training Services 
Section 4105 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 permits 
Medicare coverage of diabetes self-management training 
(DSMT) services when these services are furnished by a 
certified provider who meets certain quality standards. This 
program is intended to educate beneficiaries in the successful 
self-management of diabetes. The program includes 
instructions in self-monitoring of blood glucose; education 
about diet and exercise; an insulin treatment plan developed 
specifically for the patient who is insulin-dependent; and 
motivation for patients to use the skills for self-management. 
Diabetes self-management training services may be covered 
by Medicare only if the treating physician or treating qualified 
non-physician practitioner who is managing the beneficiary's 
diabetic condition certifies that such services are needed. The 
referring physician or qualified non-physician practitioner must 
maintain the plan of care in the beneficiary's medical record 
¡nd ?ocumentation substantiating the need for training on an 
Ind1v1dual basis when group training is typically covered, if 
so ordered. _T_he order must also include a statement signed 
by the phys1c1an that the service is needed as well as the 
following: 
•
The number of initial or follow-up hours ordered (the 
phys1c1an can order less than 1 O hours of training);
652 
The topics to be covered in training (initial training hours 
can be used for the full initial training program or specific 
areas such as nutrition or insulin training); and
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
•
A determination that the beneficiary should receive 
individual or group training. 
The provider of the service must maintain documentation in a 
file that includes the original order from the physician and any 
special conditions noted by the physician. 
When the training under the order is changed, the training 
order/referral must be signed by the physician or qualified non­
physician practitioner treating the beneficiary and maintained 
in the beneficiary's file in the DSMT's program records. 
NOTE: All entities billing for DSMT under the fee-for-service 
payment system or other payment systems must meet all 
national coverage requirements. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 300.2
Certified Providers 
A designated certified provider bills for DSMT provided by an 
accredited DSMT program. Certified providers must submit 
a copy of their accreditation certificate to the contractor. The 
statute states that a "certified provider" is a physician or other 
individual or entity designated by the Secretary that, in addition 
to providing outpatient self-management training services, 
provides other items and services for which payment may be 
made under title XVIII, and meets certain quality standards. 
The CMS is designating all providers and suppliers that 
bill Medicare for other individual services such as hospital 
outpatient departments, renal dialysis facilities, physicians and 
durable medical equipment suppliers as certified. All suppliers/ 
providers who may bill for other Medicare services or items 
and who represent a DSMT program that is accredited as 
meeting quality standards can bill and receive payment for the 
entire DSMT program. Registered dietitians are eligible to bill 
on behalf of an entire DSMT program on or after January 1, 
2002, as long as the provider has obtained a Medicare 
provider number. A dietitian may not be the sole provider of the 
DSMT service. There is an exception for rural areas. In a rural 
area, an individual who is qualified as a registered dietitian and 
as a certified diabetic educator who is currently certified by 
an organization approved by CMS may furnish training and is 
deemed to meet the multidisciplinary team requirement. 
The CMS will not reimburse services on a fee-for-service basis 
rendered to a beneficiary under Part A. 
NOTE: While separate payment is not made for this service 
to Rural Health Clinics (RHCs), the service is covered but 
is considered included in the all-inclusive encounter rate. 
Effective January 1, 2006, payment for DSMT provided in a 
Federally Qualified Health Clinic (FQHC) that meets all of the 
requirements identified in Pub. 100-04, chapter 18, section 120 
may be made in addition to one other visit the beneficiary had 
during the same day. 
All DSMT programs must be accredited as meeting quality 
standards by a CMS approved national accreditation 
organization. Currently, CMS recognizes the American 
Diabetes Association, American Association of Diabetes 
Educators and the Indian Health Service as approved national 
accreditation organiz¡tions. Programs without accreditation by 
a CMS-approved national accreditation organization are not 
covere¢. Certified providers may be asked to submit updated 
accred1tat1on documents at any time or to submit outcome data 
to an organization designated by CMS. 
Enrollment of DMEPOS Suppliers 
The DMEPOS suppliers are reimbursed for diabetes training 
through local earners. In order to file claims for DSMT, a 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
DMEPOS supplier must be enrolled in the Medicare program 
with the National Supplier Clearinghouse (NSC). The supplier 
must also meet the quality standards of a CMS-approved 
national accreditation organization as stated above. DMEPOS 
suppliers must obtain a provider number from the local carrier 
in order to bill for DSMT. 
The A/8 MAC (8) requires a completed Form CMS-855, 
along with an accreditation certificate as part of the provider 
application process. After it has been determined that the 
quality standards are met, a billing number is assigned to the 
supplier. Once a supplier has received a National Provider 
Identification (NPI) number, the supplier can begin receiving 
reimbursement for this service. 
A/8 MACs (8) should contact the National Supplier 
Clearinghouse (NSC) according to the instruction in Pub 
100-08, the Medicare Program Integrity Manual, Chapter
10, "Healthcare Provider/Supplier Enrollment," to verify an
applicant is currently enrolled and eligible to receive direct
payment from the Medicare program.
The applicant is assigned specialty 87. 
Any DMEPOS supplier that has its billing privileges 
deactivated or revoked by the NSC will also have the billing 
number deactivated by the A/8 MAC (8). 
100-2, Chapter-15, 300.3
Frequency of Training 
A - Initial Training 
The initial year for DSMT is the 12 month period following the 
initial date. 
Medicare will cover initial training that meets the following 
conditions: 
•
Is furnished to a beneficiary who has not previously
received initial or follow-up training under HCPCS codes
G0108 or G0109;
•
Is furnished within a continuous 12-month period;
Does not exceed a total of 10 hours* (the 10 hours of
training can be done in any combination of 1/2 hour
increments);
With the exception of 1 hour of individual training, training
is usually furnished in a group setting, which can contain
other patients besides Medicare beneficiaries, and;
•
One hour of individual training may be used for any part
of the training including insulin training.
* When a claim contains a DSMT HCPCS code and the
associated units cause the total time for the DSMT initial year
to exceed '10' hours, a CWF error will set.
B -Follow-Up Training 
Medicare covers follow-up training under the following 
conditions: 
•
No more than 2 hours individual or group training per
beneficiary per year;
Group training consists of 2 to 20 individuals who need
not all be Medicare beneficiaries;
•
Follow-up training for subsequent years is based on a
12 month calendar after completion of the full 10 hours of
initial training;
Follow-up training is furnished in increments of no less
than one-half hour*; and
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
•
The physician (or qualified non-physician practitioner)
treating the beneficiary must document in the
beneficiary's medical record that the beneficiary is a
diabetic.
*When a claim contains a DSMT HCPCS code and the
associated units cause the total time for any follow-up year to 
exceed 2 hours, a CWF error will set.
100-2, Chapter-15, 300.4
Coverage Requirements for Individual Training 
Medicare covers training on an individual basis for a Medicare 
beneficiary under any of the following conditions. 
•
No group session is available within 2 months of the date
the training is ordered;
•
The beneficiary's physician (or qualified non-physician
practitioner) documents in the beneficiary's medical
record that the beneficiary has special needs resulting
from conditions, such as severe vision, hearing or
language limitations or other such special conditions
as identified by the treating physician or non-physician
practitioner, that will hinder effective participation in a
group training session; or
The physician orders additional insulin training.
The need for individual training must be identified by the
physician or non-physician practitioner in the referral.
NOTE: If individual training has been provided to a Medicare 
beneficiary and subsequently the A/B MAC (A) or (B) or 
intermediary determines that training should have been 
provided in a group, A/8 MACs (A) and (8) down-code the 
reimbursement from individual to the group level and provider 
education would be the appropriate actions instead of denying 
the service as billed. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 310
Kidney Disease Patient Education Services 
By definition, chronic kidney disease (CKD) is kidney damage 
for 3 months or longer, regardless of the cause of kidney 
damage. CKD typically evolves over a long period of time and 
patients may not have symptoms until significant, possibly 
irreversible, damage has been done. Complications can 
develop from kidneys that do not function properly, such as 
high blood pressure, anemia, and weak bones. When CKD 
progresses, it may lead to kidney failure, which requires 
artificial means to perform kidney functions (dialysis) or a 
kidney transplant to maintain life. 
Patients can be classified into 5 stages based on their 
glomerular filtration rate (GFR, how quickly blood is filtered 
through the kidneys), with stage I having kidney damage 
with normal or increased GFR to stage V with kidney failure, 
also called end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Once patients 
with CKD are identified, treatment is available to help 
prevent complications of decreased kidney function, slow the 
progression of kidney disease, and reduce the risk of other 
diseases such as heart disease. 
Beneficiaries with CKD may benefit from kidney disease 
education (KDE) interventions due to the large amount of 
medical information that could affect patient outcomes, 
including the increasing emphasis on self-care and patients' 
desire for informed, autonomous decision-making. Pre-dialysis 
education can help patients achieve better understanding of 
their illness, dialysis modality options, and may help delay the 
need for dialysis. Education interventions should be patient-
653 
centered, encourage collaboration, offer support to the patient, 
and be delivered consistently. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after January 1, 
2010, Section 152(b) of the Medicare Improvements for 
Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (MIPPA) covers KDE 
services under Medicare Part B. KDE services are designed 
to provide beneficiaries with Stage IV CKD comprehensive 
information regarding: the management of comorbidities, 
including delaying the need for dialysis; prevention of 
uremic complications; all therapeutic options (each option 
for renal replacement therapy, dialysis access options, and 
transplantation); ensuring that the beneficiary has opportunities 
to actively participate in his/her choice of therapy; and that the 
services be tailored to meet the beneficiary's needs. 
Regulations for KDE services were established at 
42 CFR 410.48. Claims processing instructions and billing 
requirements can be found in Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims 
Processing Manual, Chapter 32 -Billing Requirements for 
Special Services, Section 20. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 310.1
Beneficiaries Eligible for Coverage 
Medicare Part B covers outpatient, face-to-face KDE services 
for a beneficiary that: 
is diagnosed with Stage IV CKD, using the Modification 
of Diet in Renal Disease (MORD) Study formula (severe 
decrease in GFR, GFR value of 15-29 ml/min/1.73 m2), 
and 
•
obtains a referral from the physician managing the
beneficiary's kidney condition. The referral should be
documented in the beneficiary's medical records.
100-2, Chapter-15, 310.2
Qualified Person 
Medicare Part B covers KDE services provided by a 'qualified 
person,' meaning a: 
physician (as defined in section 30 of this chapter), 
physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse 
specialist (as defined in sections 190, 200, and 210 of 
this chapter), 
hospital, critical access hospital (CAH), skilled nursing 
facility (SNF), comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation 
facility (CORF), home health agency (HHA), or hospice, 
if the KDE services are provided in a rural area (using 
the actual geographic location core based statistical area 
(CBSA) to identify facilities located in rural areas), or 
•
hospital or CAH that is treated as being rural (was 
reclassified from urban to rural status per 42 CFR 
412.103). 
NOTE: The "incident to" requirements at section 1861(s)(2) 
(A) of the Social Security Act (the Act) do not apply to KDE
services.
The following providers are not 'qualified persons' and are 
excluded from furnishing KDE services: 
•
A hospital, CAH, SNF, CORF, HHA, or hospice located
outside of a rural area (using the actual geographic
location CBSA to identify facilities located outside of a
rural area), unless the services are furnished by a hospital 
or CAH that is treated as being in a rural area; and 
Renal dialysis facilities.
654 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-2, Chapter-15, 310.3
Limitations for Coverage 
Medicare Part B covers KDE services: 
•
Up to six (6) sessions as a beneficiary lifetime maximum.
A session is 1 hour. In order to bill for a session, a
session must be at least 31 minutes in duration. A
session that lasts at least 31 minutes, but less than 
1 hour still constitutes 1 session. 
On an individual basis or in group settings; if the services
are provided in a group setting, a group consists of
2 to 20 individuals who need not all be Medicare 
beneficiaries. 
NOTE: Two HCPCS codes were created for this benefit and 
one or the other must be present, along with the appropriate 
ICD diagnosis codes. 
The diagnosis codes are: 
ICD-9-CM - code 585.4 (chronic kidney disease, 
Stage IV (severe)), or 
•
ICD-10-CM - code N18.4 (chronic kidney disease, 
Stage IV). 
The HCPCS codes are: 
G0420: Face-to-face educational services related to the 
care of chronic kidney disease; individual, per session, 
per one hour 
•
G0421: Face-to-face educational services related to the
care of chronic kidney disease; group, per session, per
one hour
100-2, Chapter-15, 310.4
Standards for Content 
Medicare Part B covers KDE services, provided by a qualified 
person, which provide comprehensive information regarding: 
A. The management of comorbidities, including delaying the 
need for dialysis, which includes, but is not limited to, the 
following topics: 
Prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease, 
Prevention and treatment of diabetes, 
•
Hypertension management,
•
Anemia management,
Bone disease and disorders of calcium and 
phosphorus metabolism management,
•
Symptomatic neuropathy management, and
Impairments in functioning and well-being.
B.
Prevention of uremic complications, which includes, but
is not limited to, the following topics
Information on how the kidneys work and what 
happens when the kidneys fail, 
•
Understanding if remaining kidney function can be
protected, preventing disease progression, and 
realistic chances of survival,
•
Diet and fluid restrictions, and 
Medication review, including how each medication
works, possible side effects and minimization of side
effects, the importance of compliance, and informed 
decision making if the patient decides not to take a
specific drug.
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
C. Therapeutic options, treatment modalities and settings,
advantages and disadvantages of each treatment or ,n,
and how the treatments replace the kidney, including, but
not limited to, the following topics:
•
Hemodialysis, both at home and in-facility;
•
Peritoneal dialysis (PD), including intermittent PD,
continuous ambulatory PD, and continuous cycling
PD, both at home and in-facility;
All dialysis access options for hemodialysis and
peritoneal dialysis; and
•
Transplantation.
D. Opportunities for beneficiaries to actively participate in 
the choice of therapy and be tailored to meet the needs 
of the individual beneficiary involved, which includes, but 
is not limited to, the following topics:
Physical symptoms, 
Impact on family and social life, 
Exercise, 
The right to refuse treatment, 
Impact on work and finances, 
The meaning of test results, and 
Psychological impact. 
100-2, Chapter-15, 310.5
Outcomes Assessment 
Qualified persons that provide KDE services must develop 
outcomes assessments that are designed to measure 
beneficiary knowledge about CKD and its treatment. The 
assessment must be administered to the beneficiary during 
a KDE session, and be made available to the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) upon request. The 
outcomes assessments serve to assist KDE educators 
and CMS in improving subsequent KDE programs, patient 
understanding, and assess program effectiveness of: 
•
Preparing the beneficiary to make informed decisions
about their healthcare options related to CKD, and
Meeting the communication needs of underserved
populations, including persons with disabilities, persons
with limited English proficiency, and persons with health
literacy needs.
100-2, Chapter-16, 10
General Exclusions From Coverage 
No payment can be made under either the hospital insurance 
or supplementary medical insurance program for certain items 
and services, when the following conditions exist: 
•
Not reasonable and necessary (§20);
No legal obligation to pay for or provide (§40); 
•
Paid for by a governmental entity (§50); 
•
Not provided within United States (§60);
Resulting from war (§70);
•
Personal comfort (§80);
Routine services and appliances (§90);
•
Custodial care (§110);
•
Cosmetic surgery (§120);
•
Char,ges by immediate relatives or members of
household (§130);
•
Dental services (§140);
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
•
Paid or expected to be paid under workers'
compensation (§150);
•
Non-physician services provided to a hospital inpatient
that were not provided directly or arranged for by the
hospital (§170);
Services Related to and Required as a Result of
Services Which are not Covered Under Medicare (§180);
•
Excluded foot care services and supportive devices for
feet (§30); or, 
•
Excluded investigational devices (See Chapter 14).
100-2, Chapter-16, 20
Services Not Reasonable and Necessary 
Items and services which are not reasonable and necessary 
for the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury or to improve 
the functioning of a malformed body member are not covered, 
e.g., payment cannot be made for the rental of a special
hospital bed to be used by the patient in their home unless
it was a reasonable and necessary part of the patient's
treatment. See also §80.
A health care item or service for the purpose of causing, 
or assisting to cause, the death of any individual (assisted 
suicide) is not covered. This prohibition does not apply to the 
provision of an item or service for the purpose of alleviating 
pain or discomfort, even if such use may increase the risk of 
death, so long as the item or service is not furnished for the 
specific purpose of causing death. 
100-2, Chapter-16, 90
Routine Services and Appliances 
Routine physical checkups; eyeglasses, contact lenses, and 
eye examinations for the purpose of prescribing, fitting, or 
changing eyeglasses; eye refractions by whatever practitioner 
and for whatever purpose performed; hearing aids and 
examinations for hearing aids; and immunizations are not 
covered. 
The routine physical checkup exclusion applies to (a) 
examinations performed without relationship to treatment 
or diagnosis for a specific illness, symptom, complaint, or 
injury; and (b) examinations required by third parties such 
as insurance companies, business establishments, or 
Government agencies. 
The routine physical checkup exclusion does not apply to the 
following services (as noted in section 42 CFR 411.15(a)(1 )): 
Screening mammography, 
•
Colorectal cancer screening tests,
•
Screening pelvic exams,
Prostate cancer screening tests,
•
Glaucoma screening exams,
Ultrasound screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms
(AAA),
cardiovascular disease screening tests,
diabetes screening tests,
•
screening electrocardiogram,
•
Initial preventive physical examinations,
•
Annual wellness visits providing personalized prevention
plan services, and
•
Additional preventive services that meet the criteria
specified in 42 CFR 410.64.
655 
If the claim is for a diagnostic test or examination performed 
solely for the purpose of establishing a claim under title IV of 
Public Law 91-173, "Black Lung Benefits," the service is not 
covered under Medicare and the claimant should be advised 
to contact their Social Security office regarding the filing of a 
claim for reimbursement under the "Black Lung" program. 
The exclusions apply to eyeglasses or contact lenses, and eye 
examinations for the purpose of prescribing, fitting, or changing 
eyeglasses or contact lenses for refractive errors. The 
exclusions do not apply to physicians' services (and services 
incident to a physicians' service) performed in conjunction with 
an eye disease, as for example, glaucoma or cataracts, or to 
post-surgical prosthetic lenses which are customarily used 
during convalescence from eye surgery in which the lens of the 
eye was removed, or to permanent prosthetic lenses required 
by an individual lacking the organic lens of the eye, whether 
by surgical removal or congenital disease. Such prosthetic 
lens is a replacement for an internal body organ -the lens of 
the eye. (See the Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 15, 
"Covered Medical and Other Health Services," §120). 
Expenses for all refractive procedures, whether performed by 
an ophthalmologist (or any other physician) or an optometrist 
and without regard to the reason for performance of the 
refraction, are excluded from coverage. 
A. Immunizations
Vaccinations or inoculations are excluded as immunizations 
unless they are either: 
Directly related to the treatment of an injury or direct 
exposure to a disease or condition, such as antirabies 
treatment, tetanus antitoxin or booster vaccine, botulin 
antitoxin, antivenin sera, or immune globulin. (In 
the absence of injury or direct exposure, preventive 
immunization (vaccination or inoculation) against such 
diseases as smallpox, polio, diphtheria, etc., is not 
covered.); or 
•
Specifically covered by statute, as described in the
Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 15, "Covered
Medical and Other Health Services," §50.4.4.2.
B. Antigens
Prior to the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1980, a physician 
who prepared an antigen for a patient could not be reimbursed 
for that service unless the physician also administered the 
antigen to the patient. Effective January 1, 1981, payment may 
be made for a reasonable supply of antigens that have been 
prepared for a particular patient even though they have not 
been administered to the patient by the same physician who 
prepared them if: 
The antigens are prepared by a physician who is a doctor 
of medicine or osteopathy, and 
The physician who prepared the antigens has examined 
the patient and has determined a plan of treatment and a 
dosage regimen. 
A reasonable supply of antigens is considered to be not more 
than a 12-month supply of antigens that has been prepared 
for a particular patient at any one time. The purpose of the 
reasonable supply limitation is to assure that the antigens 
retain their potency and effectiveness over the period in which 
they are to be administered to the patient. (See the Medicare 
Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 15, "Covered Medical and 
Other Health Services," §50.4.4.1) 
656 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-2, Chapter-16, 140
Dental Services Exclusion 
Items and services in connection with the care, treatment, 
filling, removal, or replacement of teeth, or structures directly 
supporting the teeth are not covered. Structures directly 
supporting the teeth mean the periodontium, which includes 
the gingivae, dentogingival junction, periodontal membrane, 
cementum, and alveolar process. However, payment may be 
made for certain other services of a dentist. (See the Medicare 
Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 15, "Covered Medical and 
Other Health Services," §150.) 
The hospitalization or nonhospitalization of a patient has no 
direct bearing on the coverage or exclusion of a given dental 
procedure. 
When an excluded service is the primary procedure involved, 
it is not covered regardless of its complexity or difficulty. For 
example, the extraction of an impacted tooth is not covered. 
Similarly, an alveoplasty (the surgical improvement of the 
shape and condition of the alveolar process) and a frenectomy 
are excluded from coverage when either of these procedures 
is performed in connection with an excluded service, e.g., 
the preparation of the mouth for dentures. In like manner, 
the removal of the torus palatinus (a bony protuberance of 
the hard palate) could be a covered service. However, with 
rare exception, this surgery is performed in connection with 
an excluded service, i.e., the preparation of the mouth for 
dentures. Under such circumstances, reimbursement is not 
made for this purpose. 
The extraction of teeth to prepare the jaw for radiation 
treatments of neoplastic disease is also covered. This is an 
exception to the requirement that to be covered, a noncovered 
procedure or service performed by a dentist must be an 
incident to and an integral part of a covered procedure or 
service performed by the dentist. Ordinarily, the dentist 
extracts the patient's teeth, but another physician, e.g., a 
radiologist, administers the radiation treatments. 
Whether such services as the administration of anesthesia, 
diagnostic X-rays, and other related procedures are covered 
depends upon whether the primary procedure being performed 
by the dentist is covered. Thus, an X-ray taken in connection 
with the reduction of a fracture of the jaw or facial bone is 
covered. However, a single X-ray or X-ray survey taken 
in connection with the care or treatment of teeth or the 
periodontium is not covered. 
See also the Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 1, 
"Inpatient Hospital Services," §70, and Chapter 15, "Covered 
Medical and Other Health Services," §150 for additional 
information on dental services. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 1, 10.2
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation 
(TENS) for Acute Post-Operative Pain 
The use of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) 
for the relief of acute post-operative pain is covered under 
Medicare. TENS may be covered whether used as an adjunct 
to the use of drugs, or as an alternative to drugs, in the 
treatment of acute pain resulting from surgery. 
The TENS devices, whether durable or disposable, may be 
used in furnishing this service. When used for the purpose 
of treating acute post-operative pain, TENS devices are 
considered supplies. As such they may be hospital supplies 
furnished inpatients covered under Part A, or supplies incident 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
to a physician's service when furnished in connection with 
surgery done on an outpatient basis, and covered under Part B. 
It is expected that TENS, when used for acute post-operative 
pain, will be necessary for relatively short periods of time, 
usually 30 days or less. In cases when TENS is used for 
longer periods, contractors should attempt to ascertain 
whether TENS is no longer being used for acute pain but 
rather for chronic pain, in which case the TENS device may 
be covered as durable medical equipment as described in 
§160.27.
Cross-references: 
Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 1, "Inpatient Hospital 
Services," §40; 
Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 2, "Hospital Services 
Covered Under Part B," §§20, 20.4, and 80; Medicare Benefit 
Policy Manual, Chapter 15, "Covered Medical and other Health 
Services, §110." 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 1, 20.21
Chelation Therapy for Treatment of 
Atherosclerosis 
Chelation therapy is the application of chelation techniques 
for the therapeutic or preventive effects of removing unwanted 
metal ions from the body. The application of chelation therapy 
using ethylenediamine-tetra-acetic acid (EDTA) for the 
treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis is controversial. 
There is no widely accepted rationale to explain the beneficial 
effects attributed to this therapy. Its safety is questioned and 
its clinical effectiveness has never been established by well­
designed, controlled clinical trials. It is not widely accepted and 
practiced by American physicians. EDTA chelation therapy for 
atherosclerosis is considered experimental. For these reasons, 
EDTA chelation therapy for the treatment or prevention of 
atherosclerosis is not covered. Some practitioners refer to 
this therapy as chemoendarterectomy and may also show a 
diagnosis other than atherosclerosis, such as arteriosclerosis 
or calcinosis. Claims employing such variant terms should also 
be denied under this section. 
Cross-reference: §20.22 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 1, 20.22
Ethylenediamine-Tetra-Acetic (EDTA) Chelation 
Therapy for Treatment of Atherosclerosis 
The use of EDTA as a chelating agent to treat atherosclerosis, 
arteriosclerosis, calcinosis, or similar generalized condition not 
listed by the FDA as an approved use is not covered. Any such 
use of EDTA is considered experimental. See §20.21 for an 
explanation of this conclusion. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 1, 40.7
Outpatient Intravenous Insulin Treatment 
(Effective December 23, 2009) 
A. General
The term outpatient intravenous (IV) insulin therapy (OIVIT) 
refers to an outpatient regimen that integrates pulsatile or 
continuous intravenous infusion of insulin via any means, 
guided by the results of measurement of: 
respiratory quotient; and/or 
urine urea nitrogen (UUN); and/or 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
arterial, venous, or capillary glucose; and/or 
potassium concentration; and 
performed in scheduled recurring periodic intermittent 
episodes. 
This regimen is also sometimes termed Cellular Activation 
Therapy (CAT), Chronic Intermittent Intravenous Insulin 
Therapy (CIIT), Hepatic Activation Therapy (HAT), lntercellular 
Activation Therapy (iCAT), Metabolic Activation Therapy 
(MAT), Pulsatile Intravenous Insulin Treatment (PIVIT), Pulse 
Insulin Therapy (PIT). and Pulsatile Therapy (PT). 
In OIVIT, insulin is intravenously administered in the 
outpatient setting for a variety of indications. Most commonly, 
it is delivered in pulses, but it may be delivered as a more 
conventional drip solution. The insulin administration is 
adjunctive to the patient's routine diabetic management 
regimen (oral agent or insulin-based) or other disease 
management regimen, typically performed on an intermittent 
basis (often weekly), and frequently performed chronically 
without duration limits. Glucose or other carbohydrate is 
available ad libitum (in accordance with patient desire). 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
N/A 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after 
December 23, 2009, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services (CMS) determines that the evidence does not support 
a conclusion that OIVIT improves health outcomes in Medicare 
beneficiaries. Therefore, CMS has determined that OIVIT is 
not reasonable and necessary for any indication under section 
1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Social Security Act. Services comprising 
an OIVIT regimen are nationally non-covered under Medicare 
when furnished pursuant to an OIVIT regimen (see subsection 
A. above).
D. Other
Individual components of OIVIT may have medical uses 
in conventional treatment regimens for diabetes and other 
conditions. Coverage for such other uses may be determined 
by other local or national Medicare determinations, and do not 
pertain to OIVIT. For example, see Pub. 100-03, NCO Manual, 
Section 40.2, Home Blood Glucose Monitors, Section 40.3, 
Closed-loop Blood Glucose Control Devices (CBGCD), Section 
190.20, Blood Glucose Testing, and Section 280.14, Infusion 
Pumps, as well as Pub. 100-04, Claims Processing Manual, 
Chapter 18, Section 90, Diabetics Screening. 
(This NCO last reviewed December 2009.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 1, 80.2
Photodynamic Therapy 
Photodynamic therapy is a medical procedure which involves 
the infusion of a photosensitive (light-activated) drug with a 
very specific absorption peak. This drug is chemically designed 
to have a unique affinity for the diseased tissue intended for 
treatment. Once introduced to the body, the drug accumulates 
and is retained in diseased tissue to a greater degree than in 
normal tissue. Infusion is followed by the targeted irradiation of 
this tissue with a non-thermal laser, calibrated to emit light at 
a wavelength that corresponds to the drug's absorption peak. 
The drug then becomes active and locally treats the diseased 
tissue. 
657 
Ocular Photodynamic Therapy (OPT) 
Ocular Photodynamic Therapy (OPT) is used in the treatment 
of ophthalmologic diseases. OPT is only covered when used in 
conjunction with verteporfin (see section 80.3, "Photosensitive 
Drugs"). 
Classic Subfoveal Choroidal Neovascular (CNV) Lesions 
-OPT is covered with a diagnosis of neovascular age­
related macular degeneration (AMO) with predominately
classic subfoveal choroidal neovascular (CNV) lesions 
(where the area of classic CNV occupies <". 50 %
of the area of the entire lesion) at the initial visit as 
determined by a fluorescein angiogram. Subsequent
follow-up visits will require either an optical coherence 
tomography (OCT) or a fluorescein angiogram (FA) to
access treatment response. There are no requirements 
regarding visual acuity, lesion size, and number of re­
treatments.
Occult Subfoveal Choroidal Neovascular (CNV) Lesions
-OPT is noncovered for patients with a diagnosis of age­
related macular degeneration (AMO) with occult and no
classic CNV lesions. 
Other Conditions -Use of OPT with verteporfin for other types 
of AMO (e.g., patients with minimally classic CNV lesions, 
atrophic, or dry AMO) is noncovered. OPT with verteporfin 
for other ocular indications such as pathologic myopia or 
presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome, is eligible for 
coverage through individual contractor discretion. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 1, 80.2.1
Ocular Photodynamic Therapy (OPT) 
Effective April 3, 2013 
A. General
Ocular Photodynamic Therapy (OPT) is used in the treatment 
of ophthalmologic diseases; specifically, for age-related 
macular degeneration (AMO), a common eye disease among 
the elderly. OPT involves the infusion of an intravenous 
photosensitizing drug called verteporfin followed by exposure 
to a laser. OPT is only covered when used in conjunction with 
verteporfin. 
Effective July 1, 2001, OPT with verteporfin was approved for 
a diagnosis of neovascular AMO with predominately classic 
subfoveal choroidal neovascularization (CNV) lesions (where 
the area of classic CNV occupies <". 50% of the area of the 
entire lesion) at the initial visit as determined by a fluorescein 
angiogram (FA). 
On October 17, 2001, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services (CMS) announced its "intent to cover" OPT with 
verteporfin for AMO patients with occult and no classic 
subfoveal CNV as determined by an FA. The October 17, 
2001, decision was never implemented. 
On March 28, 2002, after thorough review and reconsideration 
of the October 17, 2001, intent to cover policy, CMS 
determined that the current non-coverage policy for OPT 
for verteporfin for AMO patients with occult and no classic 
subfoveal CNV as determined by an FA should remain in 
effect. 
Effective August 20, 2002, CMS issued a non-covered 
instruction for OPT with verteporfin for AMO patients with 
occult and no classic subfoveal CNV as determined by an FA. 
658 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective April 1, 2004, OPT with verteporfin continues 
to be approved for a diagnosis of neovascular AMO with 
predominately classic subfoveal CNV lesions (where the area 
of classic CNV occupies<". 50% of the area of the entire lesion) 
at the initial visit as determined by an FA. (CNV lesions are 
comprised of classic and/or occult components.) Subsequent 
follow-up visits require either an optical coherence tomography 
(OCT) (effective April 3. 2013) or an FA (effective April 1, 2004) 
to access treatment response. There are no requirements 
regarding visual acuity, lesion size, and number of re­
treatments when treating predominantly classic lesions. 
In addition, after thorough review and reconsideration of the 
August 20, 2002, non-coverage policy, CMS determines that 
the evidence is adequate to conclude that OPT with verteporfin 
is reasonable and necessary for treating: 
1. Subfoveal occult with no classic CNV associated with
AMO; and, 
2. Subfoveal minimally classic CNV (where the area of 
classic CNV occupies <50% of the area of the entire 
lesion) associated with AMO.
The above 2 indications are considered reasonable and 
necessary only when: 
1. The lesions are small (4 disk areas or less in size)at the
time of initial treatment or within the 3 months prior to 
initial treatment; and,
2. The lesions have shown evidence of progression 
within the 3 months prior to initial treatment. Evidence 
of progression must be documented by deterioration 
of visual acuity (at least 5 letters on a standard eye 
examination chart), lesion growth (an increase in at least
1 disk area), or the appearance of blood associated with
the lesion.
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Other uses of OPT with verteporfin to treat AMO not already 
addressed by CMS will continue to be non-covered. These 
include, but are not limited to, the following AMO indications: 
Juxtafoveal or extrafoveal CNV lesions (lesions outside 
the fovea), 
Inability to obtain a fluorescein angiogram, 
•
Atrophic or "dry" AMO.
D. Other
The OPT with verteporfin for other ocular indications, such 
as pathologic myopia or presumed ocular histoplasmosis 
syndrome, continue to be eligible for local coverage 
determinations through individual A/B MAC discretion. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 1, 80.3
Photosensitive Drugs 
Photosensitive drugs are the light-sensitive agents used in 
photodynamic therapy. Once introduced into the body, these 
drugs selectively identify and adhere to diseased tissue. The 
drugs remain inactive until they are exposed to a specific 
wavelength of light, by means of a laser, that corresponds to 
their absorption peak. The activation of a photosensitive drug 
results in a photochemical reaction which treats the diseased 
tissue without affecting surrounding normal tissue. 
Verteporfin 
Verteporfin, a benzoporphyrin derivative, is an intravenous 
lipophilic photosensitive drug with an absorption peak of 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
690 nm. This drug was first approved by the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) on April 12, 2000, and subsequently, 
approved for inclusion in the United States Pharmacopoeia on 
July 18, 2000, meeting Medicare's definition of a drug when 
used in conjunction with ocular photodynamic therapy (OPT) 
(see section 80.2, "Photodynamic Therapy") when furnished 
intravenously incident to a physician's service. For patients 
with age-related macular degeneration (AMD), Verteporfin 
is only covered with a diagnosis of neovascular age-related 
macular degeneration with predominately classic subfoveal 
choroidal neovascular (CNV) lesions (where the area of 
classic CNV occupies £ 50% of the area of the entire lesion) 
at the initial visit as determined by a fluorescein angiogram 
(FA). Subsequent follow-up visits will require either an optical 
coherence tomography (OCT) or an FA to access treatment 
response. OPT with verteporfin is covered for the above 
indication and will remain non-covered for all other indications 
related to AMD (see section 80.2). OPT with Verteporfin for 
use in non-AMD conditions is eligible for coverage through 
individual A/B MAC discretion. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 1, 80.3.1
Verteporfin -Effective April 3, 2013 
A. General
Verteporfin, a benzoporphyrin derivative, is an intravenous 
lipophilic photosensitive drug with an absorption peak of 690 
nm. Verteporfin was first approved by the Food and Drug 
Administration on April 12, 2000, and subsequently approved 
for inclusion in the United States Pharmacopoeia on July 
18, 2000, meeting Medicare's definition of a drug as defined 
under § 1861 (t)( 1) of the Social Security Act. Verteporfin is only 
covered when used in conjunction with ocular photodynamic 
therapy OPT) when furnished intravenously incident to a 
physician's service. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective April 1, 2004, OPT with verteporfin is covered for 
patients with a diagnosis of neovascular age-related macular 
degeneration (AMD) with: 
•
Predominately classic subfoveal choroidal
neovascularization (CNV) lesions (where the area of 
classic CNV occupies ¤ 50% of the area of the entire 
lesion) at the initial visit as determined by a fluorescein 
angiogram. (CNV lesions are comprised of classic and/or 
occult components.) Subsequent follow-up visits require 
either an optical coherence tomography (OCT) (effective
April 3, 2013) or a fluorescein angiogram (FA) (effective
April 1, 2004) to access treatment response.
There are no requirements regarding visual acuity, 
lesion size, and number of retreatments when treating 
predominantly classic lesions. 
•
Subfoveal occult with no classic associated with AMD. 
•
Subfoveal minimally classic CNV (where the area of 
classic CNV occupies <50% of the area of the entire
lesion) associated with AMD.
The above 2 indications are considered reasonable and 
necessary only when: 
1. The lesions are small (4 disk areas or less in size) 
at the time of initial treatment or within the 3 months 
prior to initial treatment; and,
2. The lesions have shown evidence of progression
within the 3 months prior to initial treatment. Evidence 
of progression must be documented by deterioration 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
of visual acuity (at least 5 letters on a standard eye 
examination chart), lesion growth (an increase in 
at least 1 disk area), or the appearance of blood 
associated with the lesion. 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Other uses of OPT with verteporfin to treat AMD not already 
addressed by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
will continue to be non-covered. These include, but are 
not limited to, the following AMD indications: juxtafoveal or 
extrafoveal CNV lesions (lesions outside the fovea), inability to 
obtain an FA, or atrophic or "dry" AMD. 
D. Other
The OPT with verteporfin for other ocular indications, such 
as pathologic myopia or presumed ocular histoplasmosis 
syndrome, continue to be eligible for local coverage 
determinations through individual A/B MAC discretion. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 2, 90.1
Pharmacogenomic Testing to Predict Warfarin 
Responsiveness (Effective August 3, 2009) 
A. General
Warfarin sodium is an orally administered anticoagulant 
drug that is marketed most commonly as Coumadin®. (The 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved labeling for 
Coumadin® includes a Black Box Warning dating back to 
2007.) Anticoagulant drugs are sometimes referred to as 
blood thinners by the lay public. Warfarin affects the vitamin 
K-dependent clotting factors 11, VII, IX, and X. Warfarin is
thought to interfere with clotting factor synthesis by inhibition of 
the C 1 subunit of the vitamin K epoxide reductase (VKORC 1)
enzyme complex, thereby reducing the regeneration of vitamin 
K1 epoxide. The elimination of warfarin is almost entirely by
metabolic conversion to inactive metabolites by cytochrome
P450 (CYP) enzymes in liver cells. CYP2C9 is the principal 
cytochrome P450 enzyme that modulates the anticoagulant 
activity of warfarin. From results of clinical studies, genetic 
variation in the CYP2C9 and/or VKORC1 genes can, in
concert with clinical factors, predict how each individual
responds to warfarin. 
Pharmacogenomics denotes the study of how an individual's 
genetic makeup, or genotype, affects the body's response 
to drugs. Pharmacogenomics as a science examines 
associations among variations in genes with individual 
responses to a drug or medication. In application, 
pharmacogenomic results (i.e., information on the patient's 
genetic variations) can contribute to predicting a patient's 
response to a given drug: good, bad, or none at all. 
Pharmacogenomic testing of CYP2C9 or VKORC1 alleles to 
predict a patient's response to warfarin occurs ideally prior 
to initiation of the drug. This would be an once-in-a-lifetime 
test, absent any reason to believe that the patient's personal 
genetic characteristics would change over time. Although 
such pharmacogenomic testing would be used to attempt to 
better approximate the best starting dose of warfarin, it would 
not eliminate the need for periodic PT/INR testing, a standard 
diagnostic test for coagulation activity and for assessing how a 
patient is reacting to a warfarin dose. 
Nationally Covered Indications 
Effective August 3, 2009, the Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services (CMS) believes that the available evidence 
supports that coverage with evidence development (CED) 
under §1862(a)(1 )(E) of the Social Security Act (the Act) 
659 
is appropriate for pharmacogenomic testing of CYP2C9 or 
VKORC1 alleles to predict warfarin responsiveness by any 
method, and is therefore covered only when provided to 
Medicare beneficiaries who are candidates for anticoagulation 
therapy with warfarin who: 
1. Have not been previously tested for CYP2C9 or VKORC1 
alleles; and 
2.
Have received fewer than five days of warfarin in the
anticoagulation regimen for which the testing is ordered; 
and 
3. Are enrolled in a prospective, randomized, controlled
clinical study when that study meets the following
standards. 
A clinical study seeking Medicare payment for 
pharmacogenomic testing of CYP2C9 or VKORC1 alleles 
to predict warfarin responsiveness provided to the Medicare 
beneficiary who is a candidate for anticoagulation therapy with 
warfarin pursuant to CED must address one or more aspects 
of the following question: 
Prospectively, in Medicare-aged subjects whose warfarin 
therapy management includes pharmacogenomic testing of 
CYP2C9 or VKORC1 alleles to predict warfarin response, 
what is the frequency and severity of the following outcomes, 
compared to subjects whose warfarin therapy management 
does not include pharmacogenomic testing? 
Major hemorrhage 
• 
Minor hemorrhage
• 
Thromboembolism related to the primary indication for 
anticoagulation 
• 
Other thromboembolic event 
•
Mortality 
The study must adhere to the following standards of scientific 
integrity and relevance to the Medicare population: 
a. The principal purpose of the research study is to test 
whether a particular intervention potentially improves the
participants' health outcomes.
b.
The research study is well-supported by available
scientific and medical information or it is intended to
clarify or establish the health outcomes of interventions 
already in common clinical use. 
c.
The research study does not unjustifiably duplicate
existing studies.
d. The research study design is appropriate to answer the
research question being asked in the study. 
e. The research study is sponsored by an organization 
or individual capable of executing the proposed study 
successfully. 
f. 
The research study is in compliance with all applicable 
Federal regulations concerning the protection of human
subjects found in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
at 45 CFR Part 46. If a study is regulated by the FDA, it 
also must be in compliance with 21 CFR Parts 50 and 
56. 
g. All aspects of the research study are conducted
according to the appropriate standards of scientific
integrity.
h.
The research study has a written protocol that clearly
addresses, or incorporates by reference, the Medicare
standards.
i. 
The clinical research study is not designed to exclusively 
test toxicity or disease pathophysiology in healthy
660 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
individuals. Trials of all medical technologies measuring 
therapeutic outcomes as one of the objectives meet this 
standard only if the disease or condition being studied is 
life-threatening as defined in 21 CFR § 312.81(a) and the 
patient has no other viable treatment options. 
j.
The clinical research study is registered on the www. 
ClinicalTrials.gov website by the principal sponsor/
investigator prior to the enrollment of the first study
subject.
k. The research study protocol specifies the method and
timing of public release of all pre-specified outcomes to
be measured including release of outcomes if outcomes
are negative or study is terminated early. The results
must be made public within 24 months of the end of
data collection. If a report is planned to be published in a 
peer-reviewed journal, then that initial release may be an
abstract that meets the requirements of the International 
Committee of Medical Journal Editors. However, a full 
report of the outcomes must be made public no later than 
3 years after the end of data collection. 
I. 
The research study protocol must explicitly discuss
subpopulations affected by the treatment under
investigation, particularly traditionally underrepresented
groups in clinical studies, how the inclusion and exclusion
criteria affect enrollment of these populations, and a plan
for the retention and reporting of said populations on the
trial. If the inclusion and exclusion criteria are expected to 
have a negative effect on the recruitment or retention of 
underrepresented populations, the protocol must discuss
why these criteria are necessary. 
m. The research study protocol explicitly discusses how the
results are or are not expected to be generalizable to the
Medicare population to infer whether Medicare patients 
may benefit from the intervention. Separate discussions
in the protocol may be necessary for populations eligible
for Medicare due to age, disability or Medicaid eligibility.
B. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
The CMS believes that the available evidence does not 
demonstrate that pharmacogenomic testing of CYP2C9 or 
VKORC1 alleles to predict warfarin responsiveness improves 
health outcomes in Medicare beneficiaries outside the context 
of CED, and is therefore not reasonable and necessary under 
§1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Act.
C. Other
This NCO does not determine coverage to identify CYP2C9 
or VKORC1 alleles for other purposes, nor does it determine 
national coverage to identify other alleles to predict warfarin 
responsiveness. 
(This NCO last reviewed August 2009.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 2, 110.22
Autologous Cellular lmmunotherapy Treatment 
(Effective June 30, 2011) 
A. General
Prostate cancer is the most common non-cutaneous cancer in 
men in the United States. In 2009, an estimated 192,280 new 
cases of prostate cancer were diagnosed and an estimated 
27,360 deaths were reported. The National Cancer Institute 
states that prostate cancer is predominantly a cancer of older 
men; the median age at diagnosis is 72 years. Once the 
patient has castration-resistant, metastatic prostate cancer the 
median survival is generally less than two years. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
In 2010 the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved 
sipuleucel-T (PROVENGE®; APC8015), for patients with 
castration-resistant, metastatic prostate cancer. The posited 
mechanism of action, immunotherapy, is different from that of 
anti-cancer chemotherapy such as docetaxel. This is the first 
immunotherapy for prostate cancer to receive FDA approval. 
The goal of immunotherapy is to stimulate the body's natural 
defenses (such as the white blood cells called dendritic 
cells, T-lymphocytes and mononuclear cells) in a specific 
manner so that they attack and destroy, or at least prevent, 
the proliferation of cancer cells. Specificity is attained by 
intentionally exposing a patient's white blood cells to a 
particular protein (called an antigen) associated with the 
prostate cancer. This exposure "trains" the white blood cells 
to target and attack the prostate cancer cells. Clinically, this 
is expected to result in a decrease in the size and/or number 
of cancer sites, an increase in the time to cancer progression, 
and/or an increase in survival of the patient. 
Sipuleucel-T differs from other infused anti-cancer therapies. 
Most such anti-cancer therapies are manufactured and sold 
by a biopharmaceutical company and then purchased by and 
dispensed from a pharmacy. In contrast, once the decision is 
made to treat with sipuleucel-T, a multi-step process is used to 
produce sipuleucel-T. Sipuleucel-T is made individually for each 
patient with his own white blood cells. The patient's white blood 
cells are removed via a procedure called leukapheresis. In a 
laboratory the white blood cells are exposed to PA2024, which is 
a molecule created by linking prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) 
with granulocyte/macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM­
CSF). PAP is an antigen specifically associated with prostate 
cancer cells; GM-CSF is a protein that targets a receptor on the 
surface of white blood cells. Hence, PAP serves to externally 
manipulate the immunological functioning of the patient's white 
blood cells while GM-CSF serves to stimulate the white blood 
cells into action. As noted in the FDA's clinical review, each 
dose of sipuleucel-T contains a minimum of 40 million treated 
white blood cells, however there is "high inherent variability" in 
the yield of sipuleucel-T from leukapheresis to leukapheresis in 
the same patient as well as from patient to patient. The treated 
white blood cells are then infused back into the same patient. 
The FDA-approved dosing regimen is three doses with each 
dose administered two weeks apart. 
Indications and Limitations of Coverage 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective for services performed on or after June 30, 2011, The 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) proposes 
that the evidence is adequate to conclude that the use of 
autologous cellular immunotherapy treatment -sipuleucel-T; 
PROVENGE® improves health outcomes for Medicare 
beneficiaries with asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic 
metastatic castrate-resistant (hormone refractory) prostate 
cancer, and thus is reasonable and necessary for this on-label 
indication under 1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Social Security Act. 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
N/A 
D. Other
Effective for services performed on or after June 30, 
2011 , coverage of all off-label uses of autologous cellular 
immunotherapy treatment-sipuleucel-T; PROVENGE® for the 
treatment of pro state cancer is left to the discretion of the local 
Medicare Administrative Contractors. 
(NCD last reviewed June 2011.) 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Assaciatian. All rights reserved. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 2, 150.11
Thermal lntradiscal Procedures (TIPs) (Effective 
September 29, 2008) 
A. General
Percutaneous thermal intradiscal procedures (TIPs) involve 
the insertion of a catheter(s)/probe(s) in the spinal disc under 
fluoroscopic guidance for the purpose of producing or applying 
heat and/or disruption within the disc to relieve low back pain. 
The scope of this national coverage determination on TIPs 
includes percutaneous intradiscal techniques that employ 
the use of a radiofrequency energy source or electrothermal 
energy to apply or create heat and/or disruption within the disc 
for coagulation and/or decompression of disc material to treat 
symptomatic patients with annular disruption of a contained 
herniated disc, to seal annular tears or fissures, or destroy 
nociceptors for the purpose of relieving pain. This includes 
techniques that use single or multiple probe(s)/catheter(s), 
which utilize a resistance coil or other delivery system 
technology, are flexible or rigid, and are placed within the 
nucleus, the nuclear-annular junction, or the annulus. 
Although not intended to be an all-inclusive list, TIPs are 
commonly identified as intradiscal electrothermal therapy 
(IDET), intradiscal thermal annuloplasty (IOTA), percutaneous 
intradiscal radiofrequency thermocoagulation (PIRFT), 
radiofrequency annuloplasty (RA), intradiscal biacuplasty 
(IDB), percutaneous (or plasma) disc decompression (POD) 
or coblation, or targeted disc decompression (TDD). At times, 
TIPs are identified or labeled based on the name of the 
catheter/probe that is used (e.g., SpineCath, discTRODE, 
SpineWand, Accutherm, or TransDiscal electrodes). Each 
technique or device has its own protocol for application of the 
therapy. Percutaneous disc decompression or nucleoplasty 
procedures that do not utilize a radiofrequency energy 
procedure) are not within the scope of this NCO. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
N/A 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Effective for services performed on or after September 29, 
2008, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has 
determined that TIPs are not reasonable and necessary for 
the treatment of low back pain. Therefore, TIPs, which include 
procedures that employ the use of a radiofrequency energy 
source or electrothermal energy to apply or create heat and/ 
or disruption within the disc for the treatment of low back pain, 
are noncovered. 
D. Other
N/A 
(This NCD last reviewed September 2008.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 2, 150.12
Collagen Meniscus Implant (Effective May 25, 
2010) 
A. General
The knee menisci are wedge-shaped, semi-lunar discs of 
fibrous tissue located in the knee joint between the ends of the 
femur and the tibia and fibula. There is a lateral and medial 
meniscus in each knee. It is known now that the menisci 
provide mechanical support, localized pressure distribution, 
and lubrication of the knee joint. Initially, meniscal tears were 
661 
treated with total meniscectomy; however, as knowledge of 
the function of the menisci and the potential long term effects 
of total meniscectomy on the knee joint evolved, treatment of 
symptomatic meniscal tears gravitated to repair of the tear, 
when possible, or partial meniscectomy. 
The collagen meniscus implant (also referred to as collagen 
scaffold (CS), CMI or Menaflex™ meniscus implant throughout 
the published literature) is used to fill meniscal defects that 
result from partial meniscectomy. The collagen meniscus 
implant is not intended to replace the entire meniscus at 
it requires a meniscal rim for attachment. The literature 
describes the placement of the collagen meniscus implant 
through an arthroscopic procedure with an additional incision 
for capture of the repair needles and tying of the sutures. After 
debridement of the damaged meniscus, the implant is trimmed 
to the size of meniscal defect and sutured into place. The 
collagen meniscus implant is described as a tissue engineered 
scaffold to support the generation of new meniscus-like tissue. 
The collagen meniscus implant is manufactured from bovine 
collagen and should not be confused with the meniscus 
transplant which involves the replacement of the meniscus with 
a transplant meniscus from a cadaver donor. The meniscus 
transplant is not addressed under this national coverage 
determination. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
N/A 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service performed on or after 
May 25, 2010, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
has determined that the evidence is adequate to conclude 
that the collagen meniscus implant does not improve health 
outcomes and, therefore, is not reasonable and necessary for 
the treatment of meniscal injury/tear under section 1862(a) 
(1 )(A) of the Social Security Act. Thus, the collagen meniscus 
implant is non-covered by Medicare. 
D. Other
N/A 
(This NCO last reviewed May 2010.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 2, 160.13
Supplies Used in the Delivery of Transcutaneous 
Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) and 
Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) 
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) and/or 
Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) can ordinarily 
be delivered to patients through the use of conventional 
electrodes, adhesive tapes and lead wires. There may be 
times, however, where it might be medically necessary for 
certain patients receiving TENS or NMES treatment to use as 
an alternative to conventional electrodes, adhesive tapes nd 
lead wires, a form-fitting conductive garment (i.e., a garment 
with conductive fibers which are separated from the patients' 
skin by layers of fabric). 
A form-fitting conductive garment (and medically necessary 
related supplies) may be covered under the program only 
when: 
1 . It has received permission or approval for marketing by 
the Food and Drug Administration; 
2. It has been prescribed by a physician for use in delivering
covered TENS or NMES treatment; and
3. One of the medical indications outlined below is met:
662 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
•
The patient cannot manage without the conductive
garment because there is such a large area or so
many sites to be stimulated and the stimulation
would have to be delivered so frequently that it is not
feasible to use conventional electrodes, adhesive 
tapes and lead wires; 
•
The patient cannot manage without the conductive
garment for the treatment of chronic intractable pain
because the areas or sites to be stimulated are 
inaccessible with the use of conventional electrodes, 
adhesive tapes and lead wires;
•
The patient has a documented medical condition
such as skin problems that preclude the application
of conventional electrodes, adhesive tapes and lead
wires;
•
The patient requires electrical stimulation beneath a
cast either to treat disuse atrophy, where the nerve 
supply to the muscle is intact, or to treat chronic 
intractable pain; or 
•
The patient has a medical need for rehabilitation
strengthening (pursuant to a written plan of 
rehabilitation) following an injury where the nerve
supply to the muscle is intact.
A conductive garment is not covered for use with a TENS 
device during the trial period specified in § 160.3 unless: 
4. The patient has a documented skin problem prior to the
start of the trial period; and 
5.
The A/B MAC (B)'s medical consultants are satisfied 
that use of such an item is medically necessary for the 
patient. 
(See conditions for coverage of the use of TENS in the 
diagnosis and treatment of chronic intractable pain in §§160.3, 
160.13, and 160.27, and the use of NMES in the treatment of 
disuse atrophy in §150.4.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 2, 160.27
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation 
(TENS) for Chronic Low Back Pain (CLBP) 
The TENS is a type of electrical nerve stimulator that is 
employed to treat chronic intractable pain. This stimulator is 
attached to the surface of the patient's skin over the peripheral 
nerve to be stimulated. It may be applied in a variety of 
settings (in the patient's home, a physician's office, or in an 
outpatient clinic). Payment for TENS may be made under the 
durable medical equipment benefit. 
A. General
For the purposes of this decision chronic low back pain (CLBP) 
is defined as: 
1. an episode of low back pain that has persisted for three 
months or longer; and 
2. is not a manifestation of a clearly defined and generally
recognizable primary disease entity. For example, there
are cancers that, through metastatic spread to the spine
or pelvis, may elicit pain in the lower back as a symptom;
and certain systemic diseases such as rheumatoid
arthritis and multiple sclerosis manifest many debilitating
symptoms of which low back pain is not the primary
focus.
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective June 8, 2012, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services (CMS) will allow coverage for Transcutaneous 
CPI" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Associatian. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) for CLBP only when all of 
the following conditions are met. 
In order to support additional research on the use of TENS for 
CLBP, we will cover this item under section 1862(a)(1 )(E) of 
the Social Security Act (the Act) subject to all of the following 
conditions: 
1. Coverage under this section expires three years after the
publication of this decision on the CMS website.
2. The beneficiary is enrolled in an approved clinical study
meeting all of the requirements below. The study must
address one or more aspects of the following questions
in a randomized, controlled design using validated
and reliable instruments. This can include randomized
crossover designs when the impact of prior TENS use is
appropriately accounted for in the study protocol.
i.
Does the use of TENS provide clinically meaningful
reduction in pain in Medicare beneficiaries with
CLBP?
ii.
Does the use of TENS provide a clinically meaningful
improvement of function in Medicare beneficiaries
with CLBP?
iii. Does the use of TENS impact the utilization of other
medical treatments or services used in the medical
management of CLBP?
These studies must be designed so that the patients in the 
control and comparison groups receive the same concurrent 
treatments and either sham (placebo) TENS or active TENS 
intervention. 
The study must adhere to the following standards of scientific 
integrity and relevance to the Medicare population: 
a. The principal purpose of the research study is to test
whether a particular intervention potentially improves the
participants' health outcomes.
b. The research study is well supported by available
scientific and medical information or it is intended to
clarify or establish the health outcomes of interventions
already in common clinical use.
c. The research study does not unjustifiably duplicate
existing studies.
d. The research study design is appropriate to answer the
research question being asked in the study.
e. The research study is sponsored by an organization
or individual capable of executing the proposed study
successfully.
f.
The research study is in compliance with all applicable
Federal regulations concerning the protection of human
subjects found at 45 CFR Part 46. If a study is regulated
by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), it must be in
compliance with 21 CFR parts 50 and 56.
g. All aspects of the research study are conducted
according to appropriate standards of scientific integrity
(see http://www.icmje.org).
h. The research study has a written protocol that clearly
addresses, or incorporates by reference, the standards
listed here as Medicare requirements for CED coverage.
i.
The clinical research study is not designed to exclusively
test toxicity or disease pathophysiology in healthy
individuals. Trials of all medical technologies measuring
therapeutic outcomes as one of the objectives meet this
standard only if the disease or condition being studied is
life threatening as defined in 21 CFR §312.81(a) and the
patient has no other viable treatment options.
CP-,-. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
j. 
The clinical research study is registered on the
ClinicalTrials.gov website by the principal sponsor/
investigator prior to the enrollment of the first study
subject.
k. The research study protocol specifies the method and
timing of public release of all prespecified outcomes to
be measured including release of outcomes if outcomes
are negative or study is terminated early. The results
must be made public within 24 months of the end of
data collection. If a report is planned to be published in a
peer reviewed journal, then that initial release may be an 
abstract that meets the requirements of the International
Committee of Medical Journal Editors (http://www.icmje.
org).
I.
The research study protocol must explicitly discuss
subpopulations affected by the treatment under
investigation, particularly traditionally underrepresented
groups in clinical studies, how the inclusion and exclusion
criteria effect enrollment of these populations, and a plan
for the retention and reporting of said populations on the
trial. If the inclusion and exclusion criteria are expected to
have a negative effect on the recruitment or retention of
underrepresented populations, the protocol must discuss
why these criteria are necessary.
m. The research study protocol explicitly discusses how the
results are or are not expected to be generalizable to the
Medicare population to infer whether Medicare patients
may benefit from the intervention. Separate discussions
in the protocol may be necessary for populations eligible
for Medicare due to age, disability or Medicaid eligibility.
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
TENS is not reasonable and necessary for the treatment of 
CLBP under section 1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Act. 
D. Other
See§ 160.13 for an explanation of coverage of medically 
necessary supplies for the effective use of TENS. See 
§ 160. 7 .1 for an explanation of coverage for assessing patients
suitability for electrical nerve stimulation therapy. See §10.2
for an explanation of coverage of transcutaneous electrical
nerve stimulation (TENS) for acute post-operative pain. Please
note, §280.13 Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulators
(TENS) NCD has been removed from the NCD manual and
incorporated into NCD 160.27
(This NCO last reviewed June 2012.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 2, 160.7.1
Assessing Patients Suitability for Electrical Nerve 
Stimulation Therapy 
Electrical nerve stimulation is an accepted modality for 
assessing a patient's suitability for ongoing treatment with a 
transcutaneous or an implanted nerve stimulator. 
Accordingly, program payment may be made for the following 
techniques when used to determine the potential therapeutic 
usefulness of an electrical nerve stimulator: 
A. Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS)
This technique involves attachment of a transcutaneous 
nerve stimulator to the surface of the skin over the peripheral 
nerve to be stimulated. It is used by the patient on a trial basis 
and its effectiveness in modulating pain is monitored by the 
physician, or physical therapist. Generally, the physician or 
physical therapist is able to determine whether the patient is 
likely to derive a significant therapeutic benefit from continuous 
663 
use of a transcutaneous stimulator within a trial period of one 
month; in a few cases this determination may take longer 
to make. Document the medical necessity for such services 
which are furnished beyond the first month.(See § 160.13 for 
an explanation of coverage of medically necessary supplies for 
the effective use of TENS.) 
If TENS significantly alleviates pain, it may be considered as 
primary treatment; if it produces no relief or greater discomfort 
than the original pain electrical nerve stimulation therapy 
is ruled out. However, where TENS produces incomplete 
relief, further evaluation with percutaneous electrical nerve 
stimulation may be considered to determine whether an 
implanted peripheral nerve stimulator would provide significant 
relief from pain. 
Usually, the physician or physical therapist providing the 
services will furnish the equipment necessary for assessment. 
Where the physician or physical therapist advises the patient 
to rent the TENS from a supplier during the trial period rather 
than supplying it himself/herself, program payment may be 
made for rental of the TENS as well as for the services of 
the physician or physical therapist who is evaluating its use. 
However, the combined program payment which is made for 
the physician's or physical therapist's services and the rental 
of the stimulator from a supplier should not exceed the amount 
which would be payable for the total service, including the 
stimulator, furnished by the physician or physical therapist 
alone. 
B. Percutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (PENS)
This diagnostic procedure which involves stimulation of 
peripheral nerves by a needle electrode inserted through Lile 
skin is performed only in a physician's office, clinic, or hospital 
outpatient department. Therefore, it is covered only when 
performed by a physician or incident to physician's service. 
If pain is effectively controlled by percutaneous stimulation, 
implantation of electrodes is warranted. 
As in the case of TENS (described in subsection A), generally 
the physician should be able to determine whether the 
patient is likely to derive a significant therapeutic benefit from 
continuing use of an implanted nerve stimulator within a trial 
period of 1 month. In a few cases, this determination may take 
longer to make. The medical necessity for such diagnostic 
services which are furnished beyond the first month must be 
documented. 
NOTE: Electrical nerve stimulators do not prevent pain but 
only alleviate pain as it occurs. A patient can be taught how 
to employ the stimulator, and once this is done, can use it 
safely and effectively without direct physician supervision. 
Consequently, it is inappropriate for a patient to visit his/ 
her physician, physical therapist, or an outpatient clinic 
on a continuing basis for treatment of pain with electrical 
nerve stimulation. Once it is determined that electrical nerve 
stimulation should be continued as therapy and the patient 
has been trained to use the stimulator, it is expected that 
a stimulator will be implanted or the patient will employ the 
TENS on a continual basis in his/her home. Electrical nerve 
stimulation treatments furnished by a physician in his/her 
office, by a physical therapist or outpatient clinic are excluded 
from coverage by §1862(a)(1) of the Act. (See §160.7 for an 
explanation of coverage of the therapeutic use of implanted 
peripheral nerve stimulators under the prosthetic devices 
benefit.) See §160.27 for an explanation of coverage of the 
therapeutic use of TENS under the durable medical equipment 
benefit. 
664 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 3, 190.11
Home Prothrombin Time/International Normalized 
Ratio (PT/INR) Monitoring for Anticoagulation 
Management -Effective March 19, 2008 
A. General
Use of the International Normalized Ratio (INR) or prothrombin 
time (PT) -standard measurement for reporting the blood's 
clotting time) -allows physicians to determine the level of 
anticoagulation in a patient independent of the laboratory 
reagents used. The INR is the ratio of the patient's PT 
(extrinsic or tissue-factor dependent coagulation pathway) 
compared to the mean PT for a group of normal individuals. 
Maintaining patients within his/her prescribed therapeutic 
range minimizes adverse events associated with inadequate 
or excessive anticoagulation such as serious bleeding 
or thromboembolic events. Patient self-testing and self­
management through the use of a home INR monitor may be 
used to improve the time in therapeutic rate (TTR) for select 
groups of patients. increased TTR leads to improved clinical 
outcomes and reductions in thromboembolic and hemorrhagic 
events. 
Warfarin (also prescribed under other trade names, e.g., 
Coumadin®) is a self-administered, oral anticoagulant (blood 
thinner) medication that affects the vitamin K-dependent 
clotting factors 11, VII, IX and X. It is widely used for various 
medical conditions, and has a narrow therapeutic index, 
meaning it is a drug with less than a 2-fold difference between 
median lethal dose and median effective dose. For this reason, 
since October 4, 2006, it falls under the category of a Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) "black-box" drug whose dosage 
must be closely monitored to avoid serious complications. 
A PT/INR monitoring system is a portable testing device 
that includes a finger-stick and an FDA-cleared meter that 
measures the time it takes for a person's blood plasma to clot. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
For services furnished on or after March 19, 2008, 
Medicare will cover the use of home PT/INR monitoring for 
chronic, oral anticoagulation management for patients with 
mechanical heart valves, chronic atrial fibrillation, or venous 
thromboembolism (inclusive of deep venous thrombosis and 
pulmonary embolism) on warfarin. The monitor and the home 
testing must be prescribed by a treating physician as provided 
at 42 CFR 410.32(a), and all of the following requirements 
must be met: 
1 . The patient must have been anticoagulated for at least 3 
months prior to use of the home INR device; and, 
2. The patient must undergo a face-to-face educational
program on anticoagulation management and must have
demonstrated the correct use of the device prior to its use
in the home; and,
3. The patient continues to correctly use the device in the
context of the management of the anticoagulation therapy
following the initiation of home monitoring; and,
4. Self-testing with the device should not occur more
frequently than once a week.
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
N/A 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
D. Other
1. All other indications for home PT/INR monitoring not
indicated as nationally covered above remain at local
Medicare contractor discretion.
2. This national coverage determination (NCD) is distinct
from, and makes no changes to, the PT clinical laboratory
NCD at section 190.17 of Publication 100-03 of the NCD
Manual.
(This NCD last reviewed March 2008.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 3, 190.14
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Testing 
(Diagnosis) 
Diagnosis of HIV infection is primarily made through the 
use of serologic assays. These assays take one of two 
forms: antibody detection assays and specific HIV antigen 
(p24) procedures. The antibody assays are usually enzyme 
immunoassays (EIA), which are used to confirm exposure of 
an individual's immune system to specific viral antigens. These 
assays may be formatted to detect HIV-1, HIV-2, or HIV-1 
and 2 simultaneously, and to detect both lgM and lgG. When 
the initial EIA test is repeatedly positive or indeterminant, 
an alternative test is used to confirm the specificity of the 
antibodies to individual viral components. The most commonly 
used method is the Western Blot. 
The HIV-1 core antigen (p24) test detects circulating viral 
antigen which may be found prior to the development of 
antibodies and may also be present in later stages of illness in 
the form of recurrent or persistent antigenemia. Its prognostic 
utility in HIV infection has been diminished as a result of 
development of sensitive viral RNA assays, and its primary use 
today is as a routine screening tool in potential blood donors. 
In several unique situations, serologic testing alone may not 
reliably establish an HIV infection. This may occur because the 
antibody response (particularly the lgG response detected by 
Western Blot) has not yet developed (that is, acute retroviral 
syndrome) or is persistently equivocal because of inherent viral 
antigen variability. It is also an issue in perinatal HIV infection 
due to transplacental passage of maternal HIV antibody. 
In these situations, laboratory evidence of HIV in blood by 
culture, antigen assays, or proviral DNA or viral RNA assays, is 
required to establish a definitive determination of HIV infection. 
Indications 
Diagnostic testing to establish HIV infection may be indicated 
when there is a strong clinical suspicion supported by one or 
more of the following clinical findings: 
1. The patient has a documented, otherwise unexplained,
AIDS-defining or AIDS-associated opportunistic infection.
2. The patient has another documented sexually transmitted
disease, which identifies significant risk of exposure to
HIV and the potential for an early or subclinical infection.
3. The patient has documented acute or chronic Hepatitis B
or C infection that identifies a significant risk of exposure
to HIV and the potential for an early or subclinical
infection.
4. The patient has a documented AIDS-defining or AIDS­
associated neoplasm.
5. The patient has a documented AIDS-associated
neurologic disorder or otherwise unexplained dementia.
6. The patient has another documented AIDS-defining
clinical condition, or a history of other severe, recurrent,
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
or persistent conditions which suggest an underlying 
immune deficiency (for example, cutaneous or mucosal 
disorders). 
7. The patient has otherwise unexplained generalized signs
and symptoms suggestive of a chronic process with
an underlying immune deficiency (for example, fever,
weight loss, malaise, fatigue, chronic diarrhea, failure to
thrive, chronic cough, hemoptysis, shortness of breath, or 
lymphadenopathy).
8. The patient has otherwise unexplained laboratory
evidence of a chronic disease process with an underlying
immune deficiency (for example, anemia, leukopenia,
pancytopenia, lymphopenia, or low CD4+ lymphocyte
count).
9. The patient has signs and symptoms of acute retroviral
syndrome with fever, malaise, lymphadenopathy, and
skin rash.
10. The patient has documented exposure to blood or 
body fluids known to be capable of transmitting HIV 
(for example, needle sticks and other significant blood
exposures) and antiviral therapy is initiated or anticipated
to be initiated.
11. The patient is undergoing treatment for rape. (HIV testing
is part of the rape treatment protocol.)
Limitations 
1. HIV antibody testing in the United States is usually
performed using HIV-1 or HIV-1/2 combination tests.
HIV-2 testing is indicated if clinical circumstances suggest
HIV-2 is likely (that is, compatible clinical finding and
HIV-1 test negative). HIV-2 testing may also be indicated
in areas of the country where there is greater prevalence
of HIV-2 infections.
2. The Western Blot test should be performed only after
documentation that the initial EIA tests are repeatedly
positive or equivocal on a single sample.
3. The HIV antigen tests currently have no defined
diagnostic usage.
4. Direct viral RNA detection may be performed in those
situations where serologic testing does not establish
a diagnosis but strong clinical suspicion persists (for
example, acute retroviral syndrome, nonspecific serologic
evidence of HIV, or perinatal HIV infection).
5. If initial serologic tests confirm an HIV infection, repeat
testing is not indicated.
6. If initial serologic tests are HIV EIA negative and there
is no indication for confirmation of infection by viral RNA
detection, the interval prior to retesting is 3-6 months.
7. Testing for evidence of HIV infection using serologic
methods may be medically appropriate in situations
where there is a risk of exposure to HIV.
8. The CPT® Editorial Panel has issued a number of codes
for infectious agent detection by direct antigen or nucleic
acid probe techniques that have not yet been developed
or are only being used on an investigational basis.
Laboratory providers are advised to remain current on
FDA-approved status for these tests.
665 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 4, 210.3
Colorectal Cancer Screening Tests 
A. General
Sections 1861 (s)(2)(R) and 1861 (pp) of the Social Security Act 
(the Act) and regulations at 42 CFR 410.37 authorize Medicare 
coverage for screening colorectal cancer tests under Medicare 
Part B. The statute and regulations authorize the Secretary to 
add other tests and procedures (and modifications to tests and 
procedures for colorectal cancer screening) as the Secretary 
finds appropriate based on consultation with appropriate 
organizations. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
1. Fecal Occult Blood Tests (FOBT) (effective January
1, 2004)
Fecal occult blood tests (FOBTs) are generally divided into 
two types: immunoassay and guaiac types. Immunoassay 
(or immunochemical) fecal occult blood tests (iFOBT} use 
"antibodies directed against human globin epitopes. While 
most iFOBTs use spatulas to collect stool samples, some 
use a brush to collect toilet water surrounding the stool. Most 
iFOBTs require laboratory processing. 
Guaiac fecal occult blood tests (gFOBT) use a peroxidase 
reaction to indicate presence of the heme portion of 
hemoglobin. Guaiac turns blue after oxidation by oxidants 
or peroxidases in the presence of an oxygen donor such as 
hydrogen peroxide. Most FOBTs use sticks to collect stool 
samples and may be developed in a physician's office or 
a laboratory. In 1998, Medicare began reimbursement for 
guaiac FOBTs, but not immunoassay type tests for colorectal 
cancer screening. Since the fundamental process is similar for 
other iFOBTs, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
evaluated colorectal cancer screening using immunoassay 
FOBTs in general. 
Effective for dates of service on and after January 1, 2004, 
Medicare covers one screening FOBT per annum for the early 
detection of colorectal cancer. This means that Medicare will 
cover one guaiac-based (gFOBT) or one immunoassay-based 
(iFOBT) at a frequency of every 12 months; i.e., at least 1 
months have passed following the month in which the last 
covered screening FOBT was performed, for beneficiaries 
aged 50 years and older. The beneficiary completes the 
existing gFOBT by taking samples from two different sites of 
three consecutive stools; the beneficiary completes the iFOBT 
by taking the appropriate number of stool samples according 
to the specific manufacturer's instructions. This screening 
requires a written order from the beneficiary's attending 
physician. ("Attending physician" means a doctor of medicine 
or osteopathy (as defined in §1861 (r)(1) of the Act) who is 
fully knowledgeable about the beneficiary's medical condition, 
and who would be responsible for using the results of any 
examination performed in the overall management of the 
beneficiary's specific medical problem.) 
Effective January 1, 2023, the minimum age for FOBT is 
reduced to 45 years and older. 
2. The Cologuard™ - Multitarget Stool DNA (sDNA) Test
(effective October 9, 2014)
Screening stool or fecal DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid, sDNA) 
testing detects molecular markers of altered DNA that are 
contained in the cells shed by colorectal cancer and pre­
malignant colorectal epithelial neoplasia into the lumen of the 
large bowel. Through the use of selective enrichment and 
amplification techniques, sDNA tests are designed to detect 
666 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
very small amounts of DNA markers to identify colorectal 
cancer or pre-malignant colorectal neoplasia. The Cologuard™ 
- multitarget sDNA test is a proprietary in vitro diagnostic
device that incorporates both sDNA and fecal immunochemical
test techniques and is designed to analyze patients' stool
samples for markers associated with the presence of colorectal
cancer and pre-malignant colorectal neoplasia.
Effective for dates of service on or after October 9, 2014, 
The Cologuard™ test is covered once every three years for 
Medicare beneficiaries that meet all of the following criteria: 
•
Age 50 to 85 years, and,
•
Asymptomatic (no signs or symptoms of colorectal
disease including but not limited to lower gastrointestinal
pain, blood in stool, positive guaiac fecal occult blood test
(gFOBT) or fecal immunochemical test (iFOBT)), and,
At average risk of developing colorectal cancer (no
personal history of adenomatous polyps, colorectal
cancer, or inflammatory bowel disease, including
Crohn's Disease and ulcerative colitis; no family history
of colorectal cancers or adenomatous polyps, familial
adenomatous polyposis, or hereditary nonpolyposis
colorectal cancer).
Effective January 1, 2023, the minimum age for sDNA test is 
reduced to 45 years and older. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part 4, 210.4
Smoking and Tobacco-Use Cessation Counseling 
(RETIRED) 
Effective September 30, 2015 this section is deleted and the 
remaining NCO entitled Counseling to Prevent Tobacco Use 
(210.4.1) remains effective. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 210.7
Screening for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) 
A. General
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is an infection caused 
by a retrovirus that affects the immune system. HIV infection 
causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), a 
disease which severely compromises an individual's immune 
system. It is currently generally accepted that antiretroviral 
therapy (ART) has significantly reduced HIV-associated 
morbidity and mortality throughout the world and the United 
States, and has transformed HIV disease for many, into a 
chronic, manageable condition. There is also evidence that the 
use of ART is associated with a substantially decreased risk for 
transmission of the virus to uninfected persons. 
Effective January 1, 2009, the Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services (CMS) is allowed to add coverage of 
"additional preventive services" through the national coverage 
determination (NCO) process if certain statutory requirements 
are met, as provided in 42 C.F.R. §410.64 (CMS began 
covering HIV screening effective December 8, 2009). One of 
those requirements is that the service(s) be categorized as a 
Grade A (strongly recommends} or Grade B (recommends} 
rating by the United States Preventive Services Task Force 
(USPSTF}. 
The USPSTF gives a Grade A recommendation to screening 
for HIV in: 
•
All adolescents and adults between the ages of 15 to 65 
years,
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
•
Younger adolescents and older adults who are at
increased risk of HIV infection,
and,
All pregnant women.
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after April 13, 
2015, CMS has determined that the evidence is adequate to 
conclude that screening for HIV infection for all individuals 
between the ages of 15 and 65 years, as recommended with 
a Grade of A by the USPSTF, is reasonable and necessary for 
early detection of HIV and is appropriate for individuals entitled 
to benefits under Part A or enrolled under Part B. 
CMS shall cover screening for HIV with the appropriate U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved laboratory tests 
and point-of-care tests, used consistent with FDA-approved 
labeling and in compliance with the Clinical Laboratory 
Improvement Act (CUA) regulations, when ordered by the 
beneficiary's physician or practitioner within the context of 
a healthcare setting and performed by an eligible Medicare 
provider for these services, for beneficiaries who meet one of 
the following conditions: 
1. Except for pregnant Medicare beneficiaries addressed
below, a maximum of one, annual, voluntary screening
for all adolescents and adults between the age of 15 and
65, without regard to perceived risk.
2. Except for pregnant Medicare beneficiaries addressed
below, a maximum of one, annual, voluntary screening
for adolescents younger than 15 and adults older than 65 
who are at increased risk for HIV infection. Increased risk 
for HIV infection is defined as follows:
Men who have sex with men,
Men and women having unprotected vaginal or anal
intercourse,
Past or present injection drug users, 
Men and women who exchange sex for money or 
drugs, or have sex partners who 
do, 
Individuals whose past or present sex partners were 
HIV-infected, bisexual, or injection drug users, 
Persons who have acquired or request testing for 
other sexually transmitted infectious diseases, 
Persons with a history of blood transfusions between 
1978 and 1985, 
Persons who request an HIV test despite reporting no 
individual risk factors, 
Persons with new sexual partners, 
Persons who, based on individualized physician 
interview and examination, are deemed to be at 
increased risk for HIV infection. The determination of 
"increased risk" for HIV infection is identified by the 
health care practitioner who assesses the patient's 
history, which is part of any complete medical 
history, typically part of an annual wellness visit and 
considered in the development of a comprehensive 
prevention plan. The medical recommendation should 
be a reflection of the service provided. 
3. A maximum of three, voluntary, HIV screenings of
pregnant Medicare beneficiaries: (1) when the diagnosis
of pregnancy is known, (2) during the third trimester, and,
(3) at labor, if ordered by the woman's clinician.
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after April 13, 
2015: 
-Medicare beneficiaries with any known diagnosis of an HIV­
related illness are not eligible for this screening test.
-Medicare beneficiaries between the ages of 15 and 65 who
have had a prior HIV screening test within 1 year are not
eligible for HIV screening (i.e., at least 11 full months must
have elapsed following the month in which the previous test
was performed in order for the subsequent test to be covered).
-Medicare beneficiaries younger than 15 or older than 65,
at increased risk for HIV-related illnesses, who have had a
prior HIV screening test within 1 year are not eligible for HIV
screening (i.e., at least 11 full months must have elapsed
following the month in which the previous test was performed
in order for the subsequent test to be covered).
-Pregnant Medicare beneficiaries who have had three
specified screening tests within each respective term of
pregnancy are not eligible for further HIV screening during
their pregnancy.
D. Other
N/A 
(This NCD last reviewed April 2015.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 210.8
Screening and Behavioral Counseling 
Interventions in Primary Care to Reduce Alcohol 
Misuse(Effective October 14, 2011) 
A. General
Based upon authority to cover "additional preventive services" 
for Medicare beneficiaries if certain statutory requirements 
are met, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
(CMS) initiated a new national coverage analysis on annual 
screening and brief behavioral counseling in primary care to 
reduce alcohol misuse in adults, including pregnant women. 
Annual screening and behavioural counseling for alcohol 
misuse in adults is recommended with a grade of B by the U.S. 
Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and is appropriate 
for individuals entitled to benefits under Part A and Part B. 
CMS will cover annual alcohol screening and up to four, brief 
face-to-face behavioral counseling in primary care settings to 
reduce alcohol misuse. CMS does not identify specific alcohol 
misuse screening tools. Rather, the decision to use a specific 
tool is at the discretion of the clinician in the primary care 
setting. Various screening tools are available for screening for 
alcohol misuse. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after October 
14, 2011, CMS will cover annual alcohol screening, and 
for those that screen positive, up to four brief, face-to-face, 
behavioral counseling interventions per year for Medicare 
beneficiaries, including pregnant women: 
Who misuse alcohol, but whose levels or patterns of 
alcohol consumption do not meet criteria for alcohol 
dependence (defined as at least three of the following: 
tolerance, withdrawal symptoms, impaired control, 
preoccupation with acquisition and/or use, persistent 
desire or unsuccessful efforts to quit, sustains social, 
occupational, or recreational disability, use continues 
despite adverse consequences); and 
667 
•
Who are competent and alert at the time that counseling 
is provided; and,
Whose counseling is furnished by qualified primary 
care physicians or other primary care practitioners in a 
primary care setting. 
Each of the behavioral counseling interventions should be 
consistent with the 5{';s approach that has been adopted by 
the USPSTF to describe such services. They are: 
1. Assess: Ask about/assess behavioral health risk(s) 
and factors affecting choice of behavior change goals/
methods.
2. 
Advise: Give clear, specific, and personalized behavior 
change advice, including information about personal
health harms and benefits. 
3. Agree: Collaboratively select appropriate treatment
goals and methods based on the patient's interest in and
willingness to change the behavior. 
4. Assist: Using behavior change techniques (self-help 
and/or counseling), aid the patient in achieving agreed
upon goals by acquiring the skills, confidence, and 
social/environmental supports for behavior change, 
supplemented with adjunctive medical treatments when 
appropriate.
5. Arrange: Schedule follow-up contacts (in person or by
telephone) to provide ongoing assistance/support and to
adjust the treatment plan as needed, including referral to 
more intensive or specialized treatment. 
For the purposes of this policy, a primary care setting is 
defined as one in which there is provision of integrated, 
accessible health care services by clinicians who are 
accountable for addressing a large majority of personal 
health care needs, developing a sustained partnership 
with patients, and practicing in the context of family and 
community. Emergency departments, inpatient hospital 
settings, ambulatory surgical centers, independent diagnostic 
testing facilities, skilled nursing facilities, inpatient rehabilitation 
facilities and hospices are not considered primary care settings 
under this definition. 
For the purposes of this policy a "primary care physician" 
and "primary care practitioner" are to be defined based on 
two existing sections of the Social Security Act, §1833(u)(6), 
§1833(x)(2)(A)(i)(I) and §1833(x)(2)(A)(i)(II):
§1833(u) 
6. Physician Defined.-For purposes of this paragraph, the
term "physician" means a physician described in section
1861 (r)(1) and the term "primary care physician" means 
a physician who is identified in the available data as a 
general practitioner, family practice practitioner, general 
internist, or obstetrician or gynecologist. 
§1833(x)(2)(A)(i)
i.
is a physician (as described in section 1861(r)(1)) who 
has a primary specialty designation of family medicine, 
internal medicine, geriatric medicine, or pediatric
medicine; or 
ii. is a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or 
physician assistant (as those terms are defined in section
1861 (aa)(5)).
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
1. Alcohol screening is non-covered when performed more
than one time in a 12-month period.
668 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
2. Brief face-to-face behavioral counseling interventions are 
non-covered when performed more than once a day; that 
is, two counseling interventions on the same day are non­
covered.
3. Brief face-to-face behavioral counseling interventions are
non-covered when performed more than four times in a 
12-month period. 
D. Other
Medicare coinsurance and Part B deductible are waived for 
this preventive service. 
(This NCO last reviewed October 2011.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 210.10
Screening for Sexually Transmitted Infections 
(STls) and High Intensity Behavioral Counseling 
(HIBC) to Prevent STls 
A. General
Sexually transmitted infections (STls} are infections that are 
passed from one person to another through sexual contact. 
STls remain an important cause of morbidity in the United 
States and have both health and economic consequences. 
Many of the complications of STls are borne by women and 
children Often, STls do not present any symptoms so can go 
untreated for long periods of time The presence of an STI during 
pregnancy may result in significant health complications for 
the woman and infant. In fact, any person who has an STI may 
develop health complications. Screening tests for the STls in 
this national coverage determination (NCO) are laboratory tests. 
Under §1861 (ddd) of the Social Security Act (the Act), the 
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has the 
authority to add coverage of additional preventive services 
if certain statutory requirements are met. The regulations 
provide: 
§410.64 Additional preventive services 
a. Medicare Part B pays for additional preventive services 
not described in paragraph (1) or (3) of the definition of
"preventive services" under §410.2, that identify medical 
conditions or risk factors for individuals if the Secretary 
determines through the national coverage determination
process (as defined in section 1869(f)(1 )(B) of the Act)
that these services are all of the following: (1) reasonable
and necessary for the prevention or early detection of 
illness or disability.(2)recommended with a grade of A or 
B by the United States Preventive Services Task Force, 
(3) appropriate for individuals entitled to benefits under 
Part A or enrolled under Part B.
b. In making determinations under paragraph (a) of this 
section regarding the coverage of a new preventive 
service, the Secretary may conduct an assessment 
of the relation between predicted outcomes and the 
expenditures for such services and may take into
account the results of such an assessment in making
such national coverage determinations.
The scope of the national coverage analysis for this NCO 
evaluated the evidence for the following STls and high 
intensity behavioral counseling (HIBC) to prevent STls for 
which the United States Preventive Services Task Force 
(USPSTF) has issued either an A or B recommendation: 
•
Screening for chlamydia! infection for all sexually active 
non-pregnant young women aged 24 and younger and 
for older non-pregnant women who are at increased risk, 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
\ 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Screening for chlamydia! infection for all pregnant women 
aged 24 and younger and for older pregnant women who 
are at increased risk, 
•
Screening for gonorrhea infection in all sexually active
women, including those who are pregnant, if they are at
increased risk,
•
Screening for syphilis infection for all pregnant women
and for all persons at increased risk,
•
Screening for Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in 
pregnant women at their first prenatal visit,
•
HIBC for the prevention of STls for all sexually active
adolescents, and for adults at increased risk for STls.
B. Nationally Covered Indications
CMS has determined that the evidence is adequate to 
conclude that screening for chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, 
and Hepatitis B, as well as HIBC to prevent STls, consistent 
with the grade A and B recommendations by the USPSTF, is 
reasonable and necessary for the early detection or prevention 
of an illness or disability and is appropriate for individuals 
entitled to benefits under Part A or enrolled under Part B. 
Therefore, effective for claims with dates of services on or 
after November 8, 2011, CMS will cover screening for these 
USPSTF-indicated STls with the appropriate Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) -approved/cleared laboratory tests, used 
consistent with FDA-approved labeling, and in compliance with 
the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA) regulations, 
when ordered by the primary care physician or practitioner, 
and performed by an eligible Medicare provider for these 
services. 
Screening for chlamydia and gonorrhea: 
Pregnant women who are 24 years old or younger when 
the diagnosis of pregnancy is known, and then repeat 
screening during the third trimester if high-risk sexual 
behavior has occurred since the initial screening test. 
Pregnant women who are at increased risk for STls when 
the diagnosis of pregnancy is known, and then repeat 
screening during the third trimester if high-risk sexual 
behavior has occurred since the initial screening test. 
•
Women at increased risk for STls annually.
Screening for syphilis: 
•
Pregnant women when the diagnosis of pregnancy
is known, and then repeat screening during the third
trimester and at delivery if high-risk sexual behaviour has
occurred since the previous screening test.
•
Men and women at increased risk for STls annually. 
Screening for Hepatitis B: 
Pregnant women at the first prenatal visit when the 
diagnosis of pregnancy is known, and then rescreening 
at time of delivery for those with new or continuing risk 
factors. 
In addition, effective for claims with dates of service on or 
after November 8, 2011, CMS will cover up to two individual 
20-to 30-minute, face-to-face counseling sessions annually
for Medicare beneficiaries for HIBC to prevent STls, for all
sexually active adolescents, and for adults at increased risk
for STls, if referred for this service by a primary care physician
or practitioner, and provided by a Medicare eligible primary
care provider in a primary care setting. Coverage of HIBC to
prevent STls is consistent with the USPSTF recommendation.
HIBC is defined as a program intended to promote sexual
risk reduction or risk avoidance, which includes each of these
CPI" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
broad topics, allowing flexibility for appropriate patient-focused 
elements: 
education, 
•
skills training,
•
guidance on how to change sexual behavior.
The high/increased risk individual sexual behaviors, based 
on the USPSTF guidelines, include any of the following: 
•
Multiple sex partners
•
Using barrier protection inconsistently
•
Having sex under the influence of alcohol or drugs
Having sex in exchange for money or drugs
Age (24 years of age or younger and sexually active for
women for chlamydia and gonorrhea)
•
Having an STI within the past year
•
IV drug use (for Hepatitis B only)
In addition for men - men having sex with men (MSM)
and engaged in high risk sexual behavior, but no regard
to age
In addition to individual risk factors, in concurrence with the 
USPSTF recommendations, community social factors such 
as high prevalence of STls in the community populations 
should be considered in determining high/increased risk for 
chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, and for recommending HIBC. 
High/increased risk sexual behavior for STls is determined by 
the primary care provider by assessing the patient's sexual 
history which is part of any complete medical history, typically 
part of an annual wellness visit or prenatal visit and considered 
in the development of a comprehensive prevention plan. The 
medical record should be a reflection of the service provided. 
For the purposes of this NCO, a primary care setting defined 
as the provision of integrated, accessible health care services 
by clinicians who are accountable for addressing a large 
majority of personal health care needs, developing a sustained 
partnership with patients, and practicing in the context of family 
and community. Emergency departments, inpatient hospital 
settings, ambulatory surgical centers, independent diagnostic 
testing facilities, skilled nursing facilities, inpatient rehabilitation 
facilities, clinics providing a limited focus of health care 
services, and hospice are examples of settings not considered 
primary care settings under this definition. 
For the purposes of this NCO, a "primary care physician" and 
"primary care practitioner" will be defined based on existing 
sections of the Social Security Act (§ 1833(u)(6), §1833(x)(2) 
(A)(i)(I) and §1833(x)(2)(A)(i)(II)). 
§1833(u)
(6) Physician Defined.-For purposes of this paragraph, the 
term "physician" means a physician described in section
1861(r)(1) and the term "primary care physician" means a
physician who is identified in the available data as a general
practitioner, family practice practitioner, general internist, or 
obstetrician or gynecologist.
§1833(x)(2)(A)(i)
i.
is a physician (as described in section 1861 (r)(1 )) who
has a primary specialty designation of family medicine,
internal medicine, geriatric medicine, or pediatric
medicine; or 
ii. is a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or 
physician assistant (as those terms are defined in section
1861 (aa)(5));
669 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Unless specifically covered in this NCO, any other NCO, or in 
statute, preventive services are non-covered by Medicare. 
D. Other
Medicare coinsurance and Part B deductible are waived for 
these preventive services. 
HIBC to prevent STls may be provided on the same date 
of services as an annual wellness visit, evaluation and 
management (E&M) service, or during the global billing period 
for obstetrical car, but only one HIBC may be provided on any 
one date of service. See the claims processing manual for 
further instructions on claims processing. 
For services provided on an annual basis, this is defined as a 
12-Month period. 
(This NCO last reviewed November 2011.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 210.11
Intensive Behavioral Therapy for Cardiovascular 
Disease (CVD) (Effective November 8, 2011) 
A. General
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of mortality 
in the United States. CVD, which is comprised of hypertension, 
coronary heart disease (such as myocardial infarction and 
angina pectoris), heart failure and stroke, is also the leading 
cause of hospitalizations. Although the overall adjusted mortality 
rate from heart disease has declined over the past decade, 
opportunities for improvement still exist. Risk factors for CVD 
include being overweight, obesity, physical inactivity, diabetes, 
cigarette smoking, high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, 
family history of myocardial infarction, and older age. 
Under §1861 (ddd) of the Social Security Act (the Act), the 
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has the 
authority to add coverage of additional preventive services 
through the National Coverage Determination (NCO) process 
if certain statutory requirements are met. Following its review, 
CMS has determined that the evidence is adequate to conclude 
that intensive behavioral therapy for CVD is reasonable and 
necessary for the prevention or early detection of illness or 
disability, is appropriate for individuals entitled to benefits 
under Part A or enrolled under Part B, and is comprised of 
components that are recommended with a grade of A or B by 
the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF). 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after November 
8, 2011, CMS covers intensive behavioral therapy for CVD 
(referred to below as a CVD risk reduction visit), which 
consists of the following three components: 
•
encouraging aspirin use for the primary prevention of
CVD when the benefits outweigh the risks for men age 
45-79 years and women 55-79 years; 
screening for high blood pressure in adults age 18 years 
and older; and 
•
intensive behavioral counseling to promote a healthy diet 
for adults with hyperlipidemia, hypertension, advancing
age, and other known risk factors for cardiovascular-and
diet-related chronic disease.
We note that only a small proportion (about 4%) of the 
Medicare population is under 45 years (men) or 55 years 
(women), therefore the vast majority of beneficiaries should 
receive all three components. Intensive behavioral counseling 
670 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
to promote a healthy diet is broadly recommended to cover 
close to 100% of the population due to the prevalence of 
known risk factors. 
Therefore, CMS covers one, face-to-face CVD risk reduction 
visit per year for Medicare beneficiaries who are competent 
and alert at the time that counseling is provided, and whose 
counseling is furnished by a qualified primary care physician or 
other primary care practitioner in a primary care setting. 
The behavioral counseling intervention for aspirin use and 
healthy diet should be consistent with the Five As approach 
that has been adopted by the USPSTF to describe such 
services: 
•
Assess: Ask about/assess behavioral health risk(s)
and factors affecting choice of behavior change goals/
methods.
Advise: Give clear, specific, and personalized behavior
change advice, including information about personal
health harms and benefits.
Agree: Collaboratively select appropriate treatment
goals and methods based on the patient's interest in and 
willingness to change the behavior. 
•
Assist: Using behavior change techniques (self-help 
and/or counseling), aid the patient in achieving agreed­
upon goals by acquiring the skills, confidence, and 
social/environmental supports for behavior change, 
supplemented with adjunctive medical treatments when 
appropriate.
•
Arrange: Schedule follow-up contacts (in person or by
telephone) to provide ongoing assistance/support and to 
adjust the treatment plan as needed, including referral to 
more intensive or specialized treatment.
For the purpose of this NCO, a primary care setting is defined 
as the provision of integrated, accessible health care services 
by clinicians who are accountable for addressing a large 
majority of personal health care needs, developing a sustained 
partnership with patients, and practicing in the context of family 
and community. Emergency departments, inpatient hospital 
settings, ambulatory surgical centers, independent diagnostic 
testing facilities, skilled nursing facilities, inpatient rehabilitation 
facilities, and hospices are not considered primary care 
settings under this definition. 
For the purpose of this NCO, a "primary care physician" and 
"primary care practitioner" are defined consistent with existing 
sections of the Act (§1833(u)(6), §1833(x)(2)(A)(i)(I) and 
§ 1833(x)(2)(A)(i)(I I)).
§1833(u)
(6) Physician Defined.-For purposes of this paragraph, the
term "physician" means a physician described in section 
1861 (r)(1 )and the term "primary care physician" means a 
physician who is identified in the available data as a general 
practitioner, family practice practitioner, general internist, or
obstetrician or gynecologist.
physician who is identified in the available data as a general 
practitioner, family practice practitioner, general internist, or 
obstetrician or gynecologist. 
§1833(x)(2) (A) Primary care practitioner.-The term "primary
care practitioner" means an individual-
(i) who-
1. is a physician (as described in section 1861 (r)(1 )) who has
a primary specialty designation of family medicine, internal
medicine, geriatric medicine, or pediatric medicine; or
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
II. is a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or 
physician assistant (as those terms are defined in section 
1861(aa)(5)).
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Unless specifically covered in this NCO, any other NCO, or in 
statute, preventive services are non-covered by Medicare. 
D. Other
Medicare coinsurance and Part B deductible are waived for 
this preventive service. 
(This NCD last reviewed November 2011.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 210.12
Intensive Behavioral Therapy for Obesity 
(Effective November 29, 2011) 
A. General
Based upon authority to cover "additional preventive services" 
for Medicare beneficiaries if certain statutory requirements 
are met, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
(CMS) initiated a new national coverage analysis on intensive 
behavioral therapy for obesity. Screening for obesity in adults 
is recommended with a grade of B by the U.S. Preventive 
Services Task Force (USPSTF) and is appropriate for 
individuals entitled to benefits under Part A and Part B. 
The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) reported that "obesity 
rates in the U.S. have increased dramatically over the last 30 
years, and obesity is now epidemic in the United States." In the 
Medicare population over 30% of men and women are obese. 
Obesity is directly or indirectly associated with many chronic 
diseases including cardiovascular disease, musculoskeletal 
conditions and diabetes. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after November 
29, 2011, CMS covers intensive behavioral therapy for obesity, 
defined as a body mass index (BMI)  30 kg/m2, for the 
prevention or early detection of illness or disability. 
Intensive behavioral therapy for obesity consists of the 
following: 
1. Screening for obesity in adults using measurement of
BMI calculated by dividing weight in kilograms by the
square of height in meters (expressed kg/m2);
2. Dietary (nutritional) assessment;
3. Intensive behavioral counseling and behavioral therapy
to promote sustained weight loss through high intensity
interventions on diet and exercise.
The intensive behavioral intervention for obesity should be 
consistent with the 5-A framework that has been highlighted by 
the USPSTF: 
1. Assess: Ask about/assess behavioral health risk(s)
and factors affecting choice of behavior change goals/
methods.
2. Advise: Give clear, specific, and personalized behavior
change advice, including information about personal 
health harms and benefits. 
3. Agree: Collaboratively select appropriate treatment 
goals and methods based on the patient's interest in and
willingness to change the behavior. 
4. Assist: Using behavior change techniques (self-help 
and/or counseling), aid the patient in achieving agreed­
upon goals by acquiring the skills, confidence, and 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
social/environmental supports for behavior change, 
supplemented with adjunctive medical treatments when 
appropriate. 
5. Arrange: Schedule follow-up contacts (in person or by
telephone) to provide ongoing assistance/support and to
adjust the treatment plan as needed, including referral to
more intensive or specialized treatment.
For Medicare beneficiaries with obesity, who are competent 
and alert at the time that counseling is provided and whose 
counseling is furnished by a qualified primary care physician 
or other primary care practitioner and in a primary care setting, 
CMS covers: 
•
One face-to-face visit every week for the first month; 
•
One face-to-face visit every other week for months 2-6;
•
One face-to-face visit every month for months 7-12, if the 
beneficiary meets the 3kg weight loss requirement during
the first six months as discussed below. 
At the six month visit, a reassessment of obesity and a 
determination of the amount of weight loss must be performed. 
To be eligible for additional face-to-face visits occurring once 
a month for an additional six months, beneficiaries must have 
achieved a reduction in weight of at least 3kg over the course 
of the first six months of intensive therapy. This determination 
must be documented in the physician office records for 
applicable beneficiaries consistent with usual practice. For 
beneficiaries who do not achieve a weight loss of at least 3kg 
during the first six months of intensive therapy, a reassessment 
of their readiness to change and BMI is appropriate after an 
additional six month period. 
For the purposes of this decision memorandum, a primary 
care setting is defined as one in which there is provision of 
integrated, accessible health care services by clinicians who 
are accountable for addressing a large majority of personal 
health care needs, developing a sustained partnership 
with patients, and practicing in the context of family and 
community. Emergency departments, inpatient hospital 
settings, ambulatory surgical centers, independent diagnostic 
testing facilities, skilled nursing facilities, inpatient rehabilitation 
facilities and hospices are not considered primary care settings 
under this definition. 
For the purposes of this decision memorandum a "primary 
care physician" and "primary care practitioner" will be defined 
consistent with existing sections of the Social Security Act 
(§1833(u)(6), §1833(x)(2)(A)(i)(I) and §1833(x)(2)(A)(i)(II)). 
§1833(u) 
(6) Physician Defined.-For purposes of this paragraph, the
term "physician" means a physician described in section 
1861(r)(1) and the term "primary care physician" means a
physician who is identified in the available data as a general 
practitioner, family practice practitioner, general internist, or 
obstetrician or gynecologist. 
§ 1833(x)(2)(A) 
Primary care practitioner-The term "primary care practitioner" 
means an individual-
(i) who-
1. is a physician (as described in section 1861 (r)(1 )) who has
a primary specialty designation of family medicine, internal
medicine, geriatric medicine, or pediatric medicine; or
11. is a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or 
physician assistant (as those terms are defined in section 
1861 (aa)(S)). 
671 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
All other indications remain non-covered. 
D. Other
Medicare coinsurance and Part B deductible are waived for 
this service. 
(This NCO last reviewed November 2011) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 220.6
Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Scans 
(RETIRED) 
Effective January 1, 2022, the Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services removed the umbrella national coverage 
determination (NCO) for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) 
Scans. In the absence of an NCO, coverage determinations 
for all oncologic and non-oncologic uses of PET that are not 
included in another NCO under section 220.6 will be made by 
the Medicare Administrative Contractors under section 1862(a) 
(1 )(A) of the Social Security Act. All PET indications currently 
covered or non-covered under NCDs under section 220.6 
remain unchanged and MACs shall not alter coverage for 
indications covered under NCDs. 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 220.6.1
PET for Perfusion of the Heart (Various Effective 
Dates) 
1. Rubidium 82 (Effective March 14, 1995)
Effective for services performed on or after March 14, 1995, 
PET scans performed at rest or with pharmacological stress 
used for noninvasive imaging of the perfusion of the heart 
for the diagnosis and management of patients with known or 
suspected coronary artery disease using the FDA approved 
radiopharmaceutical Rubidium 82 (Rb 82) are covered, 
provided the requirements below are met: 
The PET scan, whether at rest alone, or rest with stress, 
is performed in place of, but not in addition to, a single 
photon emission computed tomography (SPECT); or 
The PET scan, whether at rest alone or rest with 
stress, is used following a SPECT that was found to 
be inconclusive. In these cases, the PET scan must 
have been considered necessary in order to determine 
what medical or surgical intervention is required to 
treat the patient. (For purposes of this requirement, an 
inconclusive test is a test(s) whose results are equivocal, 
technically uninterpretable, or discordant with a patient's 
other clinical data and must be documented in the 
beneficiary's file.) 
•
For any PET scan for which Medicare payment is 
claimed for dates of services prior to July 1, 2001, the
claimant must submit additional specified information on
the claim form (including proper codes and/or modifiers),
to indicate the results of the PET scan. The claimant 
must also include information on whether the PET scan
was performed after an inconclusive non-invasive cardiac
test. The information submitted with respect to the 
previous noninvasive cardiac test must specify the type 
of test performed prior to the PET scan and whether it 
was inconclusive or unsatisfactory. These explanations
are in the form of special G codes used for billing PET 
scans using Rb 82. Beginning July 1, 2001, claims 
should be submitted with the appropriate codes. 
672 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
2. Ammonia N-13 (Effective October 1, 2003)
Effective for services performed on or after October 1, 2003, 
PET scans performed at rest or with pharmacological stress 
used for noninvasive imaging of the perfusion of the heart 
for the diagnosis and management of patients with known or 
suspected coronary artery disease using the FDA approved 
radiopharmaceutical ammonia N-13 are covered, provided the 
requirements below are met: 
The PET scan, whether at rest alone, or rest with stress, 
is performed in place of, but not in addition to, a SPECT; 
or 
The PET scan, whether at rest alone or rest with 
stress, is used following a SPECT that was found to 
be inconclusive. In these cases, the PET scan must 
have been considered necessary in order to determine 
what medical or surgical intervention is required to 
treat the patient. (For purposes of this requirement, an 
inconclusive test is a test whose results are equivocal, 
technically uninterpretable, or discordant with a patient's 
other clinical data and must be documented in the 
beneficiary's file.) 
(This NCO last reviewed March 2005.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 220.6.17
Positron Emission Tomography (FDG PET) for 
Oncologic Conditions (Effective June 11, 2013) 
A. General
FOG (2-[F18] fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose) Positron Emission 
Tomography (PET) is a minimally-invasive diagnostic 
imaging procedure used to evaluate glucose metabolism in 
normal tissue as well as in diseased tissues in conditions 
such as cancer, ischemic heart disease, and some 
neurologic disorders. FOG is an injected radionuclide (or 
radiopharmaceutical) that emits sub-atomic particles, known 
as positrons, as it decays. FOG PET uses a positron camera 
(tomograph) to measure the decay of FOG. The rate of 
FOG decay provides biochemical information on glucose 
metabolism in the tissue being studied. As malignancies can 
cause abnormalities of metabolism and blood flow, FOG PET 
evaluation may indicate the probable presence or absence 
of a malignancy based upon observed differences in biologic 
activity compared to adjacent tissues. 
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) 
was asked by the National Oncologic PET Registry (NOPR) 
to reconsider section 220.6 of the National Coverage 
Determinations (NCO) Manual to end the prospective data 
collection requirements under Coverage with Evidence 
Development (CED) across all oncologic indications of FOG 
PET imaging. The CMS received public input indicating that 
the current coverage framework of prospective data collection 
under CED be ended for all oncologic uses of FOG PET 
imaging. 
1. Framework
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after June 11 
2013, CMS is adopting a coverage framework that ends the 
prospective data collection requirements by NOPR under CED 
for all oncologic uses of FOG PET imaging. CMS is making 
this change for all NCDs that address coverage of FOG PET 
for oncologic uses addressed in this decision. This decision 
does not change coverage for any use of PET imaging using 
radiopharmaceuticals NaF-18 (fluorine-18 labeled sodium 
fluoride), ammonia N-13, or rubidium-82 (Rb-82). 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
2. Initial Anti-Tumor Treatment Strategy
CMS continues to believe that the evidence is adequate to 
determine that the results of FOG PET imaging are useful in 
determining the appropriate initial anti-tumor treatment strategy 
for beneficiaries with suspected cancer and improve health 
outcomes and thus are reasonable and necessary under 
§1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Social Security Act (the Act).
Therefore, CMS continues to nationally cover one FOG PET 
study for beneficiaries who have cancers that are biopsy 
proven or strongly suspected based on other diagnostic testing 
when the beneficiary's treating physician determines that 
the FOG PET study is needed to determine the location and/ 
or extent of the tumor for the following therapeutic purposes 
related to the initial anti-tumor treatment strategy: 
To determine whether or not the beneficiary is an 
appropriate candidate for an invasive diagnostic or 
therapeutic procedure; or 
•
To determine the optimal anatomic location for an 
invasive procedure; or
To determine the anatomic extent of tumor when the
recommended anti-tumor treatment reasonably depends
on the extent of the tumor.
See the table at the end of this section for a synopsis of all 
nationally covered and non-covered oncologic uses of FOG 
PET imaging. 
B. 1. Initial Anti-Tumor Treatment Strategy Nationally
Covered Indications
a. CMS continues to nationally cover FOG PET imaging
for the initial anti-tumor treatment strategy for male and
female breast cancer only when used in staging distant
metastasis.
b. CMS continues to nationally cover FOG PET to
determine initial anti-tumor treatment strategy for
melanoma other than for the evaluation of regional lymph
Nodes.
c. CMS continues to nationally cover FOG PET to
determine initial anti-tumor treatment strategy for
melanoma other than for the evaluation of regional lymph
nodes.
C. 1 Initial Anti-Tumor Treatment Strategy Nationally
Non-Covered Indications
a. CMS continues to nationally non-cover initial anti-tumor
treatment strategy in Medicare beneficiaries who have
adenocarcinoma of the prostate.
b. CMS continues to nationally non-cover FOG PET
imaging for diagnosis of breast cancer and initial staging
of axillary nodes.
c.
CMS continues to nationally non-cover FOG PET
imaging for initial anti-tumor treatment strategy for the
evaluation of regional lymph nodes in melanoma.
d. CMS continues to nationally non-cover FOG PET
imaging for the diagnosis of cervical cancer related to
initial anti-tumor treatment strategy.
3. Subsequent Anti-Tumor Treatment Strategy
B.2. Subsequent Anti-Tumor Treatment Strategy
Nationally Covered Indications
Three FOG PET scans are nationally covered when used 
to guide subsequent management of anti-tumor treatment 
strategy after completion of initial anti-cancer therapy. 
Coverage of more than three FOG PET scans to guide 
subsequent management of anti-tumor treatment strategy after 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
completion of initial anti-cancer therapy shall be determined by
the MACs. 
4. Synopsis of Coverage of FDG PET for Oncologic
Conditions
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after June 
11, 2013, the chart below summarizes national FOG PET 
coverage for oncologic conditions: 
FDG PET for 
Initial Treatment 
Subsequent Treatment 
Cancers Tumor 
Strategy {formerly 
Strategy {formerly 
Type 
"diagnosis" & 
"restaging" & "monitoring 
"staging" 
response to treatment" 
Colo rectal 
Cover 
Cover 
Esophagus 
Cover 
Cover 
Head and Neck 
Cover 
Cover 
(not thyroid, CNS) 
Lymphoma 
Cover 
Cover 
Non-small cell lung Cover 
Cover 
Ovary 
Cover 
Cover 
Brain 
Cover 
Cover 
Cervix 
Cover with exceptions • Cover 
Small cell lung 
Cover 
Cover 
Soft tissue 
Cover 
Cover 
sarcoma 
Pancreas 
Cover 
Cover 
Testes 
Cover 
Cover 
Prostate 
Non-cover 
Cover 
Thyroid 
Cover 
Cover 
Breast (male and 
Cover with exceptions • Cover 
female) 
Melanoma 
Cover with exceptions • Cover 
All other solid 
Cover 
Cover 
tumors 
Myeloma 
Cover 
Cover 
All other cancers 
Cover 
Cover 
not listed 
*Cervix: Nationally non-covered for the initial diagnosis
of cervical cancer related to initial anti-tumor treatment
strategy. All other indications for initial anti-tumor treatment
strategy for cervical cancer are nationally covered.
*Breast: Nationally non-covered for initial diagnosis and/or
staging of axillary lymph nodes. Nationally covered for initial
staging of metastatic disease. All other indications for initial
anti-tumor treatment strategy for breast cancer are nationally
covered.
*Melanoma: Nationally non-covered for initial staging of
regional lymph nodes. All other indications for initial anti-
tumor treatment strategy for melanoma are nationally
covered.
D. Other
N/A 
673 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 220.6.19
Positron Emission Tomography NaF-18 (NaF-
18 PET) to Identify Bone Metastasis of Cancer 
(Effective February 26, 2010) 
A. General
Positron Emission Tomography (PET) is a minimally-
invasive, diagnostic imaging procedure that assesses the 
level of metabolic activity and perfusion in various organ 
systems of the body. A positron camera (tomograph) is used 
to produce crosssectional tomographic images, which are 
obtained from positron-emitting radioactive tracer substances 
(radiopharmaceuticals) such as F-18 sodium fluoride (NaF-18). 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
The confirmatory analyses were not published during the 
24-month time period.
Therefore, effective December 15, 2017, CMS determines that 
there are no nationally covered indications for PET NaF-18. 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Effective December 15, 2017, CMS determines that PET 
NaF-18 PET is nationally non-covered. 
D. Other
Other PET radiopharmaceutical tracers for cancer can be 
covered at local Medicare Administrative Contractor discretion 
when used according to their FDA-approved indication(s). 
(This NCD last reviewed December 2017.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 240.4
Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) 
Therapy For Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) 
(Effective April 4, 2005) (Effective March 13, 2008) 
A. General
Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) is a non-invasive 
technique for providing single levels of air pressure from a flow 
generator, via a nose mask, through the nares. The purpose 
is to prevent the collapse of the oropharyngeal walls and the 
obstruction of airflow during sleep, which occurs in obstructive 
sleep apnea (OSA). 
The apnea hypopnea index (AHi) is equal to the average 
number of episodes of apnea and hypopnea per hour. The 
respiratory disturbance index (ROI) is equal to the average 
number of respiratory disturbances per hour. 
Apnea is defined as a cessation of airflow for at least 1 O 
seconds. Hypopnea is defined as an abnormal respiratory 
event lasting at least 10 seconds with at least a 30% reduction 
in thoracoabdominal movement or airflow as compared to 
baseline, and with at least a 4% oxygen desaturation. 
The AHi and/or ROI may be measured by polysomnography 
(PSG) in a facility-based sleep study laboratory, or by a Type II 
home sleep test (HST) monitor, a Type Ill HST monitor, or a 
Type IV HST monitor measuring at least 3 channels. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after March 
13, 2008, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
(CMS) determines that CPAP therapy when used in adult 
patients with OSA is considered reasonable and necessary 
under the following situations: 
674 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
1.
The use of CPAP is covered under Medicare when used
in adult patients with OSA. Coverage of CPAP is initially
limited to a 12-week period to identify beneficiaries
diagnosed with OSA as subsequently described who
benefit from CPAP. CPAP is subsequently covered only
for those beneficiaries diagnosed with OSA who benefit
from CPAP during this 12-week period.
2.
The provider of CPAP must conduct education of the
beneficiary prior to the use of the CPAP device to ensure
that the beneficiary has been educated in the proper use
of the device. A caregiver, for example a family member,
may be compensatory, if consistently available in the
beneficiary's home and willing and able to safely operate
the CPAP device.
3. A positive diagnosis of OSA for the coverage of CPAP
must include a clinical evaluation and a positive:
a. attended PSG performed in a sleep laboratory; or 
b. unattended HST with a Type II home sleep monitoring
device; or
c.
unattended HST with a Type Ill home sleep
monitoring device; or
d.
unattended HST with a Type IV home sleep
monitoring device that measures at least 3 channels.
4.
The sleep test must have been previously ordered by
the beneficiary's treating physician and furnished under
appropriate physician supervision.
5. An initial 12-week period of CPAP is covered in adult
patients with OSA if either of the following criterion using
the AHi or ROI are met:
a. AHi or ROI greater than or equal to 15 events per
hour, or
b. AHi or ROI greater than or equal to 5 events and less
than or equal to 14 events per hour with documented
symptoms of excessive daytime sleepiness,
impaired cognition, mood disorders or insomnia, or 
documented hypertension, ischemic heart disease, or 
history of stroke.
6.
The AHi or ROI is calculated on the average number of
events of per hour. If the AHi or ROI is calculated based
on less than 2 hours of continuous recorded sleep, the
total number of recorded events to calculate the AHi
or ROI during sleep testing must be at a minimum the
number of events that would have been required in a
2-hour period.
7.
Apnea is defined as a cessation of airflow for at least
10 seconds. Hypopnea is defined as an abnormal
respiratory event lasting at least 10 seconds with at
least a 30% reduction in thoracoabdominal movement or
airflow as compared to baseline, and with at least a 4% 
oxygen desaturation.
8.
Coverage with Evidence Development (CED): Medicare
provides the following limited coverage for CPAP in adult
beneficiaries who do not qualify for CPAP coverage
based on criteria 1-7 above. A clinical study seeking
Medicare payment for CPAP provided to a beneficiary
who is an enrolled subject in that study must address one
or more of the following questions:
a. In Medicare-aged subjects with clinically identified risk
factors for OSA, how does the diagnostic accuracy of
a clinical trial of CPAP compare with PSG and Type II,
Ill & IV HST in identifying subjects with OSA who will
respond to CPAP?
b. In Medicare-aged subjects with clinically identified risk
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
factors for OSA who have not undergone confirmatory 
testing with PSG or Type 11, Ill & IV HST, does CPAP 
cause clinically meaningful harm? 
c. The study must meet the following additional
standards:
d. The principal purpose of the research study is to test 
whether a particular intervention potentially improves 
the participants' health outcomes. 
e. The research study is well-supported by available
scientific and medical information or it is intended
to clarify or establish the health outcomes of 
interventions already in common clinical use.
f.
The research study does not unjustifiably duplicate
existing studies.
g. The research study design is appropriate to answer
the research question being asked in the study.
h. The research study is sponsored by an organization
or individual capable of executing the proposed study
successfully.
i.
The research study is in compliance with all
applicable Federal regulations concerning the
protection of human subjects found at 45 CFR Part
46. If a study is Food and Drug Administration­
regulated, it also must be in compliance with 21 CFR
Parts 50 and 56.
j.
All aspects of the research study are conducted
according to the appropriate standards of scientific
integrity.
k. The research study has a written protocol that clearly
addresses, or incorporates by reference, the Medicare
standards.
I.
The clinical research study is not designed to
exclusively test toxicity or disease pathophysiology in 
healthy individuals. Trials of all medical technologies
measuring therapeutic outcomes as one of the 
objectives meet this standard only if the disease or
condition being studied is life-threatening as defined
in 21 CFR §312.81(a) and the patient has no other
viable treatment options.
m. The clinical research study is registered on the
ClinicalTrials.gov Web site by the principal sponsor/
investigator prior to the enrollment of the first study
subject.
n. The research study protocol specifies the method and 
timing of public release of all pre-specified outcomes
to be measured, including release of outcomes if
outcomes are negative or study is terminated early. 
The results must be made public within 24 months 
of the end of data collection. If a report is planned
for publication in a peer-reviewed journal, then
that initial release may be an abstract that meets
the requirements of the International Committee of
Medical Journal Editors. However, a full report of the
outcomes must be made public no later than 3 years
after the end of data collection.
o. The research study protocol must explicitly
discuss subpopulations affected by the treatment
under investigation, particularly traditionally
underrepresented groups in clinical studies, how
the inclusion and exclusion criteria affect enrollment
of these populations, and a plan for the retention
and reporting of said populations in the trial. If the
inclusion and exclusion criteria are expected to have
a negative effect on the recruitment or retention of
CP& is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
underrepresented populations, the protocol must 
discuss why these criteria are necessary. 
p. The research study protocol explicitly discusses how 
the results are or are not expected to be generalizable
to the Medicare population to infer whether Medicare
patients may benefit from the intervention. Separate
discussions in the protocol may be necessary for
populations eligible for Medicare due to age, disability,
or Medicaid eligibility.
C. Nationally Non-covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of services on and after March 
13, 2008, other diagnostic tests for the diagnosis of OSA, other 
than those noted above for prescribing CPAP, are not sufficient 
for the coverage of CPAP. 
D. Other
N/A 
(This NCD last reviewed March 2008.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 240.4.1
Sleep Testing for Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) 
(Effective March 3, 2009) 
A. General
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the collapse of the 
oropharyngeal walls and the obstruction of airflow occurring 
during sleep. Diagnostic tests for OSA have historically 
been classified into four types. The most comprehensive is 
designated Type I attended facility based polysomnography 
(PSG), which is considered the reference standard for 
diagnosing OSA. Attended facility based polysomnogram 
is a comprehensive diagnostic sleep test including at least 
electroencephalography (EEG), electro-oculography (EOG), 
electromyography (EMG), heart rate or electrocardiography 
(ECG), airflow, breathing/respiratory effort, and arterial oxygen 
saturation (SaO2) furnished in a sleep laboratory facility in 
which a technologist supervises the recording during sleep 
time and has the ability to intervene if needed. Overnight PSG 
is the conventional diagnostic test for OSA. The American 
Thoracic Society and the American Academy of Sleep 
Medicine have recommended supervised PSG in the sleep 
laboratory over 2 nights for the diagnosis of OSA and the 
initiation of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). 
Three categories of portable monitors (used both in attended 
and unattended settings) have been developed for the 
diagnosis of OSA. Type II monitors have a minimum of 7 
channels (e.g., EEG, EOG, EMG, ECG-heart rate, airflow, 
breathing/respiratory effort, SaO2)-this type of device monitors 
sleep staging, so AHi can be calculated). Type Ill monitors 
have a minimum of 4 monitored channels including ventilation 
or airflow (at least two channels of respiratory movement or 
respiratory movement and airflow), heart rate or ECG, and 
oxygen saturation. Type IV devices may measure one, two, 
three or more parameters but do not meet all the criteria of 
a higher category device. Some monitors use an actigraphy 
algorithm to identify periods of sleep and wakefulness. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after March 
3, 2009, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services finds 
that the evidence is sufficient to determine that the results of 
the sleep tests identified below can be used by a beneficiary's 
treating physician to diagnose OSA, that the use of such 
sleep testing technologies demonstrates improved health 
outcomes in Medicare beneficiaries who have OSA and 
675 
receive the appropriate treatment, and that these tests are 
thus reasonable and necessary under section 1862(a)(1 )(A) of 
the Social Security Act. 
1. Type I PSG is covered when used to aid the diagnosis
of OSA in beneficiaries who have clinical signs and 
symptoms indicative of OSA if performed attended in a
sleep lab facility. 
2. Type II or Type Ill sleep testing devices are covered when 
used to aid the diagnosis of OSA in beneficiaries who 
have clinical signs and symptoms indicative of OSA if 
performed unattended in or out of a sleep lab facility or 
attended in a sleep lab facility. 
3. Type IV sleep testing devices measuring three or more 
channels, one of which is airflow, are covered when 
used to aid the diagnosis of OSA in beneficiaries who 
have signs and symptoms indicative of OSA if performed
unattended in or out of a sleep lab facility or attended in a
sleep lab facility. 
4. Sleep testing devices measuring three or more channels 
that include actigraphy, oximetry, and peripheral arterial 
tone, are covered when used to aid the diagnosis of OSA 
in beneficiaries who have signs and symptoms indicative 
of OSA if performed unattended in or out of a sleep lab 
facility or attended in a sleep lab facility. 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of services on and after March 
3, 2009, other diagnostic sleep tests for the diagnosis of OSA, 
other than those noted above for prescribing CPAP, are not 
sufficient for the coverage of CPAP and are not covered. 
D. Other
N/A 
(This NCD last reviewed March 2009.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 250.5
Dermal Injections for the Treatment of Facial 
Lipodystrophy Syndrome (LDS) - Effective March 
23,2010 
A. General
Treatment of persons infected with the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or persons who have Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) may include highly 
active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Drug reactions 
commonly associated with long-term use of HAART include 
metabolic complications such as, lipid abnormalities, e.g., 
hyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia, diabetes, lipodystrophy, and 
heart disease. Lipodystrophy is characterized by abnormal fat 
distribution in the body. 
The LOS is often characterized by a loss of fat that results 
in a facial abnormality such as severely sunken cheeks. The 
patient's physical appearance may contribute to psychological 
conditions (e.g., depression) or adversely impact a patient's 
adherence to antiretroviral regimens (therefore jeopardizing 
their health) and both of these are important health-related 
outcomes of interest in this population. Therefore, improving 
a patient's physical appearance through the use of dermal 
injections could improve these health-related outcomes. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after March 
23, 2010, dermal injections for LOS are only reasonable and 
necessary using dermal fillers approved by the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) for this purpose, and then only in HIV-
676 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
infected beneficiaries when LOS caused by antiretroviral HIV 
treatment is a significant contributor to their depression. 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
1. Dermal fillers that are not approved by the FDA for the
treatment of LOS. 
2. Dermal fillers that are used for any indication other than
LOS in HIV-infected individuals who manifest depression
as a result of their antiretroviral HIV treatments. 
D. Other
N/A 
(This NCD last reviewed March 2010.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 260.6
Dental Examination Prior to Kidney 
Transplantation 
Despite the "dental services exclusion" in §1862(a)(12) of 
the Act (see the Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 
16, "General Exclusions From Coverage," §140;), an oral 
or dental examirration performed on an inpatient basis as 
part of a comprehensive workup prior to renal transplant 
surgery is a covered service. This is because the purpose of 
the examination is not for the care of the teeth or structures 
directly supporting the teeth. Rather, the examination is for the 
identification, prior to a complex surgical procedure, of existing 
medical problems where the increased possibility of infection 
would not only reduce the chances for successful surgery but 
would also expose the patient to additional risks in undergoing 
such surgery. 
Such a dental or oral examination would be covered under 
Part A of the program if performed by a dentist on the 
hospital's staff, or under Part B if performed by a physician. 
(When performing a dental or oral examination, a dentist is 
not recognized as a physician under §1861 (r) of the Act.) (See 
the Medicare General Information, Eligibility, and Entitlement 
Manual, Chapter 5, "Definitions," §70.2, and the Medicare 
Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 15, "Covered Medical and 
Other Health Services," §150.) 
100-3, Chapter-1, Part-4, 270.3
Blood-Derived Products for Chronic Non-Healing 
Wounds 
A. General
Wound healing is a dynamic, interactive process that involves 
multiple cells and proteins. There are three progressive stages 
of normal wound healing, and the typical wound healing 
duration is about 4 weeks. While cutaneous wounds are a 
disruption of the normal, anatomic structure and function of 
the skin, subcutaneous wounds involve tissue below the skin's 
surface. Wounds are categorized as either acute, where the 
normal wound healing stages are not yet completed but it is 
presumed they will be, resulting in orderly and timely wound 
repair, or chronic, where a wound has failed to progress 
through the normal wound healing stages and repair itself 
within a sufficient time period. 
Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is produced in an autologous 
or homologous manner. Autologous PRP is comprised of 
blood from the patient who will ultimately receive the PRP. 
Alternatively, homologous PRP is derived from blood from 
multiple donors. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Blood is donated by the patient and centrifuged to produce an 
autologous gel for treatment of chronic, non-healing cutaneous 
wounds that persist for 30 days or longer and fail to properly 
complete the healing process. Autologous blood derived 
products for chronic, non-healing wounds includes both: (1) 
platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) products, and (2) PRP 
(such as AutoloGel). 
The PRP is different from previous products in that it contains 
whole cells including white cells, red cells, plasma, platelets, 
fibrin, stem cells, and fibrocyte precursors. 
The PRP is used by physicians in clinical settings in treating 
chronic, non-healing wounds, open, cutaneous wounds, soft 
tissue and bone. Alternatively, PDGF does not contain cells 
and was previously marketed as a product to be used by 
patients at home. 
B. Nationally Covered Indications
Effective for services performed on or after April 13, 2021, 
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) will 
cover autologous PRP for the treatment of chronic nonhealing 
diabetic wounds under section 1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Social 
Security Act (the Act) for a duration of 20 weeks, when 
prepared by devices whose Food and Drug Administration­
cleared indications include the management of exuding 
cutaneous wounds, such as diabetic ulcers. 
C. Nationally Non-Covered Indications
Autologous PDGF for the treatment of chronic, non-healing 
cutaneous wounds, and, Becaplermin, a non-autologous 
growth factor for chronic, non-healing subcutaneous wounds, 
and, Autologous PRP for the treatment of acute surgical 
wounds when the autologous PRP is applied directly to the 
closed incision, or for dehiscent wounds. 
D. Other
Effective for services performed on or after April 13, 2021: 
Coverage of autologous PRP for the treatment of chronic non­
healing diabetic wounds beyond 20 weeks will be determined 
by the local Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs). 
Coverage of autologous PRP for the treatment of all other 
chronic non-healing wounds will be determined by the local 
MACs under section 1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Act. 
(This NCO last reviewed April 2021.) 
100-4, Chapter-1, 30.3.1
Mandatory Assignment on Carrier Claims 
The following practitioners who provide services under the 
Medicare program are required to accept assignment for all 
Medicare claims for their services. This means that they must 
accept the Medicare allowed amount as payment in full for 
their practitioner services. The beneficiary's liability is limited to 
any applicable deductible plus the 20 percent coinsurance. 
Assignment is mandated for the following claims: 
•
Clinical diagnostic laboratory services and physician lab
services;
•
Physician services to individuals dually entitled to
Medicare and Medicaid;
Services of physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical 
nurse specialists, nurse midwives, certified registered nurse 
anesthetists, clinical psychologists, clinical social workers, 
registered dietitians/nutritionists, anesthesiologist assistants, 
and mass immunization roster billers. 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
NOTE: The provider type Mass Immunization Roster Biller 
can only bill for influenza and pneumococcal vaccinations 
and administrations. These services are not subject to the 
deductible or the 20 percent coinsurance. 
Ambulatory surgical center services; (No deductible 
and 25% coinsurance for colorectal cancer screening 
colonoscopies (G0105 and G0121) and effective for 
dates of service on or after January 1, 2008 GO 104 also 
applies); 
•
Home dialysis supplies and equipment paid under
Method II for dates of service prior to January 1, 2011.
Refer to Section 30.3.8 for information regarding the
elimination of Method II home dialysis for dates of service
on and after January 1, 2011; 
Drugs and biologicals; and,
Ambulance services.
When these claims are inadvertently submitted as unassigned, 
carriers process them as assigned. 
Note that, unlike physicians, practitioners, or suppliers bound 
by a participation agreement, practitioners/entities providing 
the services/supplies identified above are required to accept 
assignment only with respect to these services/supplies 
(unless they have signed participation agreements which 
blanket the full range of their services). 
The carrier system must be able to identify (and update) the 
codes for those services subject to the assignment mandate. 
For the practitioner services of physicians and independently 
practicing physical and occupational therapists, the 
acceptance of assignment is not mandatory. Nor is the 
acceptance of assignment mandatory for the suppliers 
of radiology services or diagnostic tests. However, these 
practitioners and suppliers may nevertheless voluntarily agree 
to participate to take advantage of the higher payment rate, 
in which case the participation status makes assignment 
mandatory for the term of the agreement. Such an agreement 
is known as the Medicare Participating Physician or Supplier 
Agreement. (See §30.3.12.2 Carrier Participation Agreement.) 
Physicians, practitioners, and suppliers who sign this 
agreement to participate are agreeing to accept assignment 
on all Medicare claims. The Medicare Participation Agreement 
and general instructions are on the CMS Web site. 
Future updates to this section will be communicated in a 
Recurring Update Notification. 
100-4, Chapter-1, 30.3.5
Effect of Assignment Upon Purchase of Cataract 
Glasses From Participating Physician or Supplier 
on Claims Submitted to Carriers 
The term Medicare beneficiary identifier (Mbi) is a general 
term describing a beneficiary's Medicare identification number. 
For purposes of this manual, Medicare beneficiary identifier 
references both the Health Insurance Claim Number (HICN) 
and the Medicare Beneficiary Identifier (MBI) during the new 
Medicare card transition period and after for certain business 
areas that will continue to use the HICN as part of their 
processes. 
A pair of cataract glasses is comprised of two distinct products: 
a professional product (the prescribed lenses) and a retail 
commercial product (the frames). The frames serve not only as 
a holder of lenses but also as an article of personal apparel. As 
such, they are usually selected on the basis of personal taste 
and style. Although Medicare will pay only for standard frames, 
677 
most patients want deluxe frames. Participating physicians and 
suppliers cannot profitably furnish such deluxe frames unless 
they can make an extra (noncovered) charge for the frames 
even though they accept assignment. 
Therefore, a participating physician or supplier (whether 
an ophthalmologist, optometrist, or optician) who accepts 
assignment on cataract glasses with deluxe frames may 
charge the Medicare patient the difference between his/her 
usual charge to private pay patients for glasses with standard 
frames and his/her usual charge to such patients for glasses 
with deluxe frames, in addition to the applicable deductible 
and coinsurance on glasses with standard frames, if all of the 
following requirements are met: 
A. The participating physician or supplier has standard
frames available, offers them for sale to the patient, and
issues and ABN to the patient that explains the price and
other differences between standard and deluxe frames. 
Refer to Chapter 30. 
B. The participating physician or supplier obtains from the 
patient (or his/her representative) and keeps on file the
following signed and dated statement:
Name of Patient 
Medicare Claim Number 
Having been informed that an extra charge is being 
made by the physician or supplier for deluxe frames, 
that this extra charge is not covered by Medicare, and 
that standard frames are available for purchase from the 
physician or supplier at no extra charge, I have chosen to 
purchase deluxe frames. 
Signature Date 
C. The participating physician or supplier itemizes on his/her
claim his/her actual charge for the lenses, his/her actual 
charge for the standard frames, and his/her actual extra 
charge for the deluxe frames (charge differential).
Once the assigned claim for deluxe frames has been 
processed, the carrier will follow the ABN instructions as 
described in §60. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 10.4
Packaging 
Under the OPPS, packaged services are items and services 
that are considered to be an integral part of another service 
that is paid under the OPPS. No separate payment is made 
for packaged services, because the cost of these items 
and services is included in the APC payment for the service 
of which they are an integral part. For example, routine 
supplies, anesthesia, recovery room use, and most drugs are 
considered to be an integral part of a surgical procedure so 
payment for these items is packaged into the APC payment for 
the surgical procedure. 
A. Packaging for Claims Resulting in APC Payments
If a claim contains services that result in an APC payment but 
also contains packaged services, separate payment for the 
packaged services is not made since payment is included in 
the APC. However, charges related to the packaged services 
are used for outlier and Transitional Corridor Payments (TOPs) 
as well as for future rate setting. Therefore, it is extremely 
important that hospitals report all HCPCS codes consistent 
with their descriptors; CPT® and/or CMS instructions and 
correct coding principles, and all charges for all services they 
furnish, whether payment for the services is made separately 
paid or is packaged. 
678 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
B. Packaging for Claims Resulting in No APC
Payments
If the claim contains only services payable under cost 
reimbursement, such as corneal tissue, and services that 
would be packaged services if an APC were payable, then the 
packaged services are not separately payable. In addition, 
these charges for the packaged services are not used to 
calculate TOPs. 
If the claim contains only services payable under a fee schedule, 
such as clinical diagnostic laboratory tests, and also contains 
services that would be packaged services if an APC were 
payable, the packaged services are not separately payable. In 
addition, the charges are not used to calculate TOPs. 
If a claim contains services payable under cost reimbursement, 
services payable under a fee schedule, and services that 
would be packaged services if an APC were payable, the 
packaged services are not separately payable. In addition, the 
charges are not used to calculate TOPs payments. 
C. Packaging Types Under the OPPS
1. Unconditionally packaged services are services for which
separate payment is never made because the payment
for the service is -always packaged into the payment for
other services. Unconditionally packaged services are
identified in the OPPS Addendum B with status indictor
of N. See the OPPS Web site at http://www.cms.hhs.gov/
HospitalOutpatientPPS/ for the most recent Addendum
B (HCPCS codes with status indicators). In general,
the charges for unconditionally packaged services are 
used to calculate outlier and TOPS payments when
they appear on a claim with a service that is separately
paid under the OPPS because the packaged service
is considered to be part of the package of services for 
which payment is being made through the APC payment 
for the separately paid service. 
2. STV-packaged services are services for which separate
payment is made only if there is no service with status 
indicator S, T, or V reported on the same claim. If a claim 
includes a service that is assigned status indicator S, T, 
or V reported on the same claim as the STV- packaged
service, the payment for the STV-packaged service is
packaged into the payment for the service(s) with status
indicator S, T, V and no separate payment is made for
the STV-packaged service. STV-packaged services are 
assigned status indicator Q1. See the OPPS Webpage
at http://www.cms.hhs.gov/HospitalOutpatientPPS/ for
identification of STV-packaged codes.
3. T-packaged services are services for which separate
payment is made only if there is no service with status
indicator T reported on the same claim. When there 
is a claim that includes a service that is assigned
status indicator T reported on the same claim as the
T-packaged service, the payment for the T-packaged
service is packaged into the payment for the service(s)
with status indicator T and no separate payment is made
for the T-packaged service. T-packaged services are 
assigned status indicator 02. See the OPPS Web site 
at http://www.cms.hhs.gov/HospitalOutpatientPPS/ for 
identification of T-packaged codes. 
4. A service that is assigned to a composite APC is a major 
component of a single episode of care. The hospital 
receives one payment through a composite APC for 
multiple major separately identifiable services. Services
mapped to composite APCs are assigned status indicator
03. See the discussion of composite APCs in section
10.2.1.
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
5. Q4 services are assigned to laboratory HCPCS codes 
that appear on the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule 
(CLFS). Status indicator Q4 designates packaged APC 
payment if billed on the same claim as a HCPCS code
assigned status indicator "J1 ," "J2," "S," "T," "V," "Q1 ," 
"Q2," or "Q3." When a Q4 service is not billed on the 
same claim as another separately payable service then 
the IOCE automatically changes their status indicator to 
"A" and separate payment is made at the CLFS payment
rate.
6. J 1 services are assigned to comprehensive APCs. 
Payment for all adjunctive services reported on the same 
claim as a J1 service is packaged into payment for the
primary J 1 service. See the discussion of comprehensive
APCs in section 10.2.3.
7. J2 services are assigned to comprehensive APCs when
a specific combination of services are reported on the
claim. Payment for all adjunctive services reported on the
same claim as a J2 service is packaged into payment for
the J2 service when certain conditions are met. See the
discussion of comprehensive APCs in section 10.2.3. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 160
Clinic and Emergency Visits 
CMS has acknowledged from the beginning of the OPPS that 
CMS believes that CPT® Evaluation and Management (E/M) 
codes were designed to reflect the activities of physicians 
and do not describe well the range and mix of services 
provided by hospitals during visits of clinic and emergency 
department patients. While awaiting the development of a 
national set of facility-specific codes and guidelines, providers 
should continue to apply their current internal guidelines to 
the existing CPT® codes. Each hospital's internal guidelines 
should follow the intent of the CPT® code descriptors, in that 
the guidelines should be designed to reasonably relate the 
intensity of hospital resources to the different levels of effort 
represented by the codes. Hospitals should ensure that their 
guidelines accurately reflect resource distinctions between the 
five levels of codes. 
Effective January 1, 2007, CMS is distinguishing between 
two types of emergency departments: Type A emergency 
departments and Type B emergency departments. 
A Type A emergency department is defined as an emergency 
department that is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 
and is either licensed by the State in which it is located under 
applicable State law as an emergency room or emergency 
department or it is held out to the public (by name, posted 
signs, advertising, or other means) as a place that provides 
care for emergency medical conditions on an urgent basis 
without requiring a previously scheduled appointment. 
A Type B emergency department is defined as an emergency 
department that meets the definition of a "dedicated 
emergency department" as defined in 42 CFR 489.24 under 
the EMTALA regulations. It must meet at least one of the 
following requirements: 
(1) It is licensed by the State in which it is located under
applicable State law as an emergency room or
emergency department;
(2) It is held out to the public (by name, posted signs,
advertising, or other means) as a place that provides 
care for emergency medical conditions on an urgent 
basis without requiring a previously scheduled 
appointment; or 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
(3) During the calendar year immediately preceding the
calendar year in which a determination under 42 CFR
489.24 is being made, based on a representative sample
of patient visits that occurred during that calendar year,
it provides at least one-third of all of its outpatient visits 
for the treatment of emergency medical conditions on
an urgent basis without requiring a previously scheduled
appointment.
Hospitals must bill for visits provided in Type A emergency 
departments using CPT® emergency department E/M codes. 
Hospitals must bill for visits provided in Type B emergency 
departments using the G-codes that describe visits provided in 
Type B emergency departments. 
Hospitals that will be billing the new Type B ED visit codes may 
need to update their internal guidelines to report these codes. 
Emergency department and clinic visits are paid in some cases 
separately and in other cases as part of a composite APC 
payment. See section 10.2.1 of this chapter for further details. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 200. 1
Billing for Corneal Tissue 
Corneal tissue will be paid on a cost basis, not under OPPS, 
only when it is used in a corneal transplant procedure 
described by one of the following CPT® codes: 65710, 65730, 
65750, 65755, 65756, 65765, 65767, and any successor 
code or new code describing a new type of corneal transplant 
procedure that uses eye banked corneal tissue. In all other 
procedures cornea tissue is packaged. To receive cost based 
reimbursement hospitals must bill charges for corneal tissue 
using HCPCS code V2785. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 200.2
Hospital Dialysis Services For Patients With and 
Without End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) 
Effective with claims with dates of service on or after August 
1, 2000, hospital-based End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) 
facilities must submit services covered under the ESRD benefit 
in 42 CFR 413.17 4 (maintenance dialysis and those items and 
services directly related to dialysis such as drugs, supplies) on 
a separate claim from services not covered under the ESRD 
benefit. Items and services not covered under the ESRD 
benefit must be billed by the hospital using the hospital bill 
type and be paid under the Outpatient Prospective Payment 
System (OPPS) (or to a CAH at reasonable cost). Services 
covered under the ESRD benefit in 42 CFR 413.17 4 must be 
billed on the ESRD bill type and must be paid under the ESRD 
PPS. This requirement is necessary to properly pay only 
unrelated ESRD services (those not covered under the ESRD 
benefit} under OPPS (or to a CAH at reasonable cost). 
Medicare does not allow payment for routine or related dialysis 
treatments, which are covered and paid under the ESRD PPS, 
when furnished to ESRD patients in the outpatient department 
of a hospital. However, in certain medical situations in which 
the ESRD outpatient cannot obtain her or his regularly 
scheduled dialysis treatment at a certified ESRD facility, the 
OPPS rule for 2003 allows payment for non-routine dialysis 
treatments (which are not covered under the ESRD benefit) 
furnished to ESRD outpatients in the outpatient department 
of a hospital. Payment for unscheduled dialysis furnished to 
ESRD outpatients and paid under the OPPS is limited to the 
following circumstances: 
679 
Dialysis performed following or in connection with a 
dialysis-related procedure such as vascular access 
procedure or blood transfusions; 
•
Dialysis performed following treatment for an unrelated 
medical emergency; e.g., if a patient goes to the 
emergency room for chest pains and misses a regularly 
scheduled dialysis treatment that cannot be rescheduled, 
CMS allows the hospital to provide and bill Medicare for
the dialysis treatment; or 
•
Emergency dialysis for ESRD patients who would
otherwise have to be admitted as inpatients in order for 
the hospital to receive payment.
In these situations, non-ESRD certified hospital outpatient 
facilities are to bill Medicare using the Healthcare Common 
Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code G0257 
(Unscheduled or emergency dialysis treatment for an ESRD 
patient in a hospital outpatient department that is not certified 
as an ESRD facility). 
HCPCS code G0257 may only be reported on type of bill 13X 
(hospital outpatient service) or type of bill 85X (critical access 
hospital) because HCPCS code G0257 only reports services 
for hospital outpatients with ESRD and only these bill types 
are used to report services to hospital outpatients. Effective 
for services on and after October 1, 2012, claims containing 
HCPCS code G0257 will be returned to the provider for 
correction if G0257 is reported with a type of bill other than 
13X or 85X (such as a 12x inpatient claim). 
HCPCS code 90935 (Hemodialysis procedure with single 
physician evaluation) may be reported and paid only if one of 
the following two conditions is met: 
1. The patient is a hospital inpatient with or without ESRD 
and has no coverage under Part A, but has Part B
coverage. The charge for hemodialysis is a charge for the
use of a prosthetic device. See Benefits Policy Manual
100-02 Chapter 15 section 120. A. The service must be
reported on a type of bill 12X or type of bill 85X. See 
the Benefits Policy Manual 100-02 Chapter 6 section 
10 (Medical and Other Health Services Furnished to
Inpatients of Participating Hospitals) for the criteria that
must be met for services to be paid when a hospital
inpatient has Part B coverage but does not have 
coverage under Part A; or
2. A hospital outpatient does not have ESRD and is
receiving hemodialysis in the hospital outpatient
department. The service is reported on a type of bill 13X
or type of bill 85X.
CPT® code 90945 (Dialysis procedure other than hemodialysis 
(e.g. peritoneal dialysis, hemofiltration, or other continuous 
replacement therapies)), with single physician evaluation, may 
be reported by a hospital paid under the OPPS or CAH method 
I or method 11 on type of bill 12X, 13X or 85X. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 200.4
Billing for Amniotic Membrane 
Hospitals should report HCPCS code V2790 (Amniotic 
membrane for surgical reconstruction, per procedure) to report 
amniotic membrane tissue when the tissue is used. A specific 
procedure code associated with use of amniotic membrane 
tissue is CPT® code 65780 (Ocular surface reconstruction; 
amniotic membrane transplantation). Payment for the amniotic 
membrane tissue is packaged into payment for CPT® code 
65780 or other procedures with which the amniotic membrane 
is used. 
680 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-4, 200. 6
Billing and Payment for Alcohol and/or Substance 
Abuse Assessment and Intervention Services 
For CY 2008, the CPT® Editorial Panel has created two new 
Category I CPT® codes for reporting alcohol and/or substance 
abuse screening and intervention services. They are CPT® 
code 99408 (Alcohol and/or substance (other than tobacco) 
abuse structured screening (e.g., AUDIT, DAST), and brief 
intervention (SBI) services; 15 to 30 minutes); and CPT® 
code 99409 (Alcohol and/or substance (other than tobacco) 
abuse structured screening (e.g., AUDIT, DAST), and brief 
intervention (SBI) services; greater than 30 minutes). However, 
screening services are not covered by Medicare without 
specific statutory authority, such as has been provided for 
mammography, diabetes, and colorectal cancer screening. 
Therefore, beginning January 1, 2008, the OPPS recognizes 
two parallel G-codes (HCPCS codes G0396 and G0397) to 
allow for appropriate reporting and payment of alcohol and 
substance abuse structured assessment and intervention 
services that are not provided as screening services, but that 
are performed in the context of the diagnosis or treatment of 
illness or injury. 
Contractors shall make payment under the OPPS for 
HCPCS code G0396 (Alcohol and/or substance (other than 
tobacco) abuse structured assessment (e.g., AUDIT, DAST) 
and brief intervention, 15 to 30 minutes) and HCPCS code 
G0397, (Alcohol and/or substance (other than tobacco) 
abuse structured assessment (e.g., AUDIT, DAST) and 
intervention greater than 30 minutes), only when reasonable 
and necessary (i.e., when the service is provided to evaluate 
patients with signs/symptoms of illness or injury) as per section 
1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Act. 
HCPCS codes G0396 and G0397 are to be used for 
structured alcohol and/or substance (other than tobacco) 
abuse assessment and intervention services that are distinct 
from other clinic and emergency department visit services 
performed during the same encounter. Hospital resources 
expended performing services described by HCPCS codes 
G0396 and G0397 may not be counted as resources for 
determining the level of a visit service and vice versa (i.e., 
hospitals may not double count the same facility resources in 
order to reach a higher level clinic or emergency department 
visit). However, alcohol and/or substance structured 
assessment or intervention services lasting less than 15 
minutes should not be reported using these HCPCS codes, 
but the hospital resources expended should be included in 
determining the level of the visit service reported. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 200.7.2
Cardiac Echocardiography With Contrast 
Hospitals are instructed to bill for echocardiograms with 
contrast using the applicable HCPCS code(s) included in Table 
200.7.2 below. Hospitals should also report the appropriate 
units of the HCPCS codes for the contrast agents used in the 
performance of the echocardiograms. 
Table 200. 7.2 - HCPCS Codes For Echocardiograms With
Contrast
HCPCS Long Descriptor 
C8921 
Transthoracic echocardiography with contrast, 
or without contrast followed by with contrast, for 
congenital cardiac anomalies; complete 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
C8922 
Transthoracic echocardiography with contrast, 
or without contrast followed by with contrast, for 
congenital cardiac anomalies; follow-up or limited 
study 
C8923 
Transthoracic echocardiography with contrast, or 
without contrast followed by with contrast, real-Time 
with image documentation (2D), includes M-mode 
recording, when performed, complete, without 
spectral or color Doppler echocardiography 
C8924 
Transthoracic echocardiography with contrast, or 
without contrast followed by with contrast, real-time 
with image documentation (2D), includes M-mode 
recording, when performed, follow-up or limited study 
C8925 
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) with 
contrast, or without contrast followed by with 
contrast, real time with image documentation (2D) 
(with or without M-mode recording); including probe 
placement, image acquisition, interpretation and 
report 
C8926 
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) with 
contrast, or without contrast followed by with 
contrast, for congenital cardiac anomalies; including 
probe placement, image acquisition, interpretation 
and report 
C8927 
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) with 
contrast, or without contrast followed by with 
contrast, for monitoring purposes, including probe 
placement, real time 2-dimensional image acquisition 
and interpretation leading to ongoing (continuous) 
assessment of (dynamically changing) cardiac 
pumping function and to therapeutic measures on an 
immediate time basis 
C8928 
Transthoracic echocardiography with contrast, or 
without contrast followed by with contrast, real-
time with image documentation (2D), includes 
M-mode recording, when performed, during rest and 
cardiovascular stress test using treadmill, bicycle 
exercise and/or pharmacologically induced stress, 
with interpretation and report 
C8929 
Transthoracic echocardiography with contrast, or 
without contrast followed by with contrast, real-time 
with image documentation (2D), includes M-mode 
recording, when performed, complete, with spectral 
Doppler echocardiography, and with color flow 
Doppler echocardiography 
C8930 
Transthoracic echocardiography, with contrast, or 
without contrast followed by with contrast, real-
time with image documentation (2D), includes 
M-mode recording, when performed, during rest and
cardiovascular stress test using treadmill, bicycle
exercise and/or pharmacologically induced stress,
with interpretation and report; including performance 
of continuous electrocardiographic monitoring, with 
physician supervision 
100-4, Chapter-4, 230.2
Coding and Payment for Drug Administration 
A. Overview
Drug administration services furnished under the Hospital 
Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS) during CY 
2005 were reported using CPT® codes 90780, 90781, and 
96400-96459. 
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Effective January 1, 2006, some of these CPT® codes were 
replaced with more detailed CPT® codes incorporating specific 
procedural concepts, as defined and described by the CPT® 
manual, such as initial, concurrent, and sequential. 
Hospitals are instructed to use the full set of CPT® codes, 
including those codes referencing concepts of initial, 
concurrent, and sequential, to bill for drug administration 
services furnished in the hospital outpatient department 
beginning January 1, 2007. In addition, hospitals are instructed 
to continue billing the HCPCS codes that most accurately 
describe the service(s) provided. 
Hospitals are reminded to bill a separate Evaluation and 
Management code (with modifier 25) only if a significant, 
separately identifiable E/M service is performed in the same 
encounter with OPPS drug administration services. 
B. Billing for Infusions and Injections
Beginning in CY 2007, hospitals were instructed to use the full 
set of drug administration CPT® codes (90760-90779; 96401-
96549), (96413-96523 beginning in CY 2008) (96360-96549 
beginning in CY 2009) when billing for drug administration 
services provided in the hospital outpatient department. 
In addition, hospitals are to continue to bill HCPCS code 
C8957 (Intravenous infusion for therapy/diagnosis; initiation 
of prolonged infusion (more than 8 hours), requiring use of 
portable or implantable pump) when appropriate. Hospitals 
are expected to report all drug administration CPT® codes in 
a manner consistent with their descriptors, CPT® instructions, 
and correct coding principles. Hospitals should note the 
conceptual changes between CY 2006 drug administration 
codes effective under the OPPS and the CPT® codes in 
effect beginning January 1, 2007, in order to ensure accurate 
billing under the OPPS. Hospitals should report all HCPCS 
codes that describe the drug administration services provided, 
regardless of whether or not those services are separately 
paid or their pa}ment is packaged. 
Medicare's general policy regarding physician supervision 
within hospital outpatient departments meets the physician 
supervision requirements for use of CPT® codes 90760-
90779, 96401-96549, (96413-96523 beginning in CY 2008). 
(Reference: Pub.100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, 
Chapter 6, §20.4.) 
Drug administration services are to be reported with a line 
item date of service on the day they are provided. In addition, 
only one initial drug administration service is to be reported 
per vascular access site per encounter, including during an 
encounter where observation services span more than 1 
calendar day. 
C. Payments For Drug Administration Services
For CY 2007, OPPS drug administration APCs were 
restructured, resulting in a six-level hierarchy where active 
HCPCS codes have been assigned according to their clinical 
coherence and resource use. Contrary to the CY 2006 
payment structure that bundled payment for several instances 
of a type of service (non-chemotherapy, chemotherapy by 
infusion, non-infusion chemotherapy) into a per-encounter APC 
payment, structure introduced in CY 2007 provides a separate 
APC payment for each reported unit of a separately payable 
HCPCS code. 
Hospitals should note that the transition to the full set of CPT® 
drug administration codes provides for conceptual differences 
when reporting, such as those noted below. 
•
In CY 2006, hospitals were instructed to bill for the first
hour (and any additional hours) by each type of infusion
681 
service (non-chemotherapy, chemotherapy by infusion, 
non-infusion chemotherapy). Beginning in CY 2007, the 
first hour concept no longer exists. CPT® codes in CY 
2007 and beyond allow for only one initial service per 
encounter, for each vascular access site, no matter how 
many types of infusion services are provided; however, 
hospitals will receive an APC payment for the initial 
service and separate APC payment(s) for additional 
hours of infusion or other drug administration services 
provided that are separately payable. 
•
In CY 2006, hospitals were instructed to bill for the first
hour (and any additional hours) by each type of infusion
service (non-chemotherapy, chemotherapy by infusion, 
non-infusion chemotherapy). Beginning in CY 2007, the 
first hour concept no longer exists. CPT® codes in CY 
2007 and beyond allow for only one initial service per 
encounter, for each vascular access site, no matter how 
many types of infusion services are provided; however, 
hospitals will receive an APC payment for the initial 
service and separate APC payment(s) for additional 
hours of infusion or other drug administration services 
provided that are separately payable. 
(NOTE: This list above provides a brief overview of a
limited number of the conceptual changes between 
CY 2006 OPPS drug administration codes and CY 
2007 OPPS drug administration codes - this list is not 
comprehensive and does not include all items hospitals 
will need to consider during this transition).
For APC payment rates, refer to the most current quarterly 
version of Addendum B on the CMS Web site at http://www. 
cms.hhs.gov/HospitalOutpatientPPS/. 
D. Infusions Started Outside the Hospital
Hospitals may receive Medicare beneficiaries for outpatient 
services who are in the process of receiving an infusion at 
their time of arrival at the hospital (e.g., a patient who arrives 
via ambulance with an ongoing intravenous infusion initiated 
by paramedics during transport). Hospitals are reminded to 
bill for all services provided using the HCPCS code(s) that 
most accurately describe the service(s) they provided. This 
includes hospitals reporting an initial hour of infusion, even if 
the hospital did not initiate the infusion, and additional HCPCS 
codes for additional or sequential infusion services if needed. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 240
Inpatient Part B Hospital Services 
Medicare pays for hospital (including CAH) inpatient Part 
B services in the circumstances provided in Pub. 100-02, 
Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 6, § 1 O ("Medical and 
Other Health Services Furnished to Inpatients of Participating 
Hospitals"). Hospitals must bill Part B inpatient services on 
a 12x Type of Bill. This Part B inpatient claim is subject to 
the statutory time limit for filing Part B claims described in 
chapter 1, §70 of this manual. 
Inpatient Part B services include inpatient ancillary services 
that do not require an outpatient status and are not strictly 
provided in an outpatient setting. Services that require an 
outpatient status and are provided only in an outpatient 
se_tti_ng ar not payable inpatient Part B services, including 
Clime V1s1ts, Emergency Department Visits, and Observation 
Services (this is not a complete listing). 
Inpatient routine services in a hospital generally are those 
services included by the provider in a daily service charge­
sometimes referred to as the "Room and Board" charge. 
682 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
They include the regular room, dietary and nursing services, 
minor medical and surgical supplies, medical social services, 
psychiatric social services, and the use of certain equipment 
and facilities for which a separate charge is not customarily 
made to Medicare Part A. Many nursing services provided 
by the floor nurse (such as IV infusions and injections, blood 
administration, and nebulizer treatments, etc.) may or may 
not have a separate charge established depending upon 
the classification of an item or service as routine or ancillary 
among providers of the same class in the same State. Some 
provider's customary charging practice has established 
separate charges for these services following the PRM-1 
instructions, however, in order for a provider's customary 
charging practice to be recognized it must be consistently 
followed for all patients and this must not result in an 
inequitable apportionment of cost to the program. If the PRM-
1 instructions have not been followed, a provider cannot bill 
these services as separate charges. Additionally, it is important 
that the charges for service rendered and documentation meet 
the definition of the HCPCS in order to separately bill. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 290.1
Observation Services Overview 
Observation care is a well-defined set of specific, clinically 
appropriate services, which include ongoing short term 
treatment, assessment, and reassessment, that are furnished 
while a decision is being made regarding whether patients 
will require further treatment as hospital inpatients or if they 
are able to be discharged from the hospital. Observation 
services are commonly ordered for patients who present to 
the emergency department and who then require a significant 
period of treatment or monitoring in order to make a decision 
concerning their admission or discharge. Observation services 
are covered only when provided by the order of a physician 
or another individual authorized by State licensure law and 
hospital staff bylaws to admit patients to the hospital or to 
order outpatient services. 
Observation services must also be reasonable and necessary 
to be covered by Medicare. In only rare and exceptional cases 
do reasonable and necessary outpatient observation services 
span more than 48 hours. In the majority of cases, the decision 
whether to discharge a patient from the hospital following 
resolution of the reason for the observation care or to admit 
the patient as an inpatient can be made in less than 48 hours 
usually in less than 24 hours. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 290.2.2
Reporting Hours of Observation 
Observation time begins at the clock time documented 
in the patient's medical record, which coincides with the 
time that observation care is initiated in accordance with a 
physician's order. Hospitals should round to the nearest hour. 
For example, a patient who began receiving observation 
services at 3:03 p.m. according to the nurses' notes and was 
discharged to home at 9:45 p.m. when observation care and 
other outpatient services were completed, should have a "7" 
placed in the units field of the reported observation HCPCS 
code. 
General standing orders for observation services following all 
outpatient surgery are not recognized. Hospitals should not 
report as observation care, services that are part of another 
Part B service, such as postoperative monitoring during a 
standard recovery period (e.g., 4-6 hours), which should be 
billed as recovery room services. Similarly, in the case of 
CPI-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
patients who undergo diagnostic testing in a hospital outpatient 
department, routine preparation services furnished prior to the 
testing and recovery afterwards are included in the payments 
for those diagnostic services. 
Observation services should not be billed concurrently with 
diagnostic or therapeutic services for which active monitoring 
is a part of the procedure (e.g., colonoscopy, chemotherapy). 
In situations where such a procedure interrupts observation 
services, hospitals may determine the most appropriate way 
to account for this time. For example, a hospital may record for 
each period of observation services the beginning and ending 
times during the hospital outpatient encounter and add the length 
of time for the periods of observation services together to reach 
the total number of units reported on the claim for the hourly 
observation services HCPCS code G0378 (Hospital observation 
service, per hour). A hospital may also deduct the average length 
of time of the interrupting procedure, from the total duration of 
time that the patient receives observation services. 
Observation time ends when all medically necessary services 
related to observation care are completed. For example, this 
could be before discharge when the need for observation has 
ended, but other medically necessary services not meeting 
the definition of observation care are provided (in which case, 
the additional medically necessary services would be billed 
separately or included as part of the emergency department or 
clinic visit). Alternatively, the end time of observation services 
may coincide with the time the patient is actually discharged 
from the hospital or admitted as an inpatient. Observation time 
may include medically necessary services and follow-up care 
provided after the time that the physician writes the discharge 
order, but before the patient is discharged. However, reported 
observation time would not include the time patients remain 
in the hospital after treatment is finished for reasons such as 
waiting for transportation home. 
If a period of observation spans more than 1 calendar day, 
all of the hours for the entire period of observation must be 
included on a single line and the date of service for that line is 
the date that observation care begins. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 290.4.1
Billing and Payment for All Hospital Observation 
Services Furnished Between January 1, 2006 and 
December 31, 2007 
Since January 1, 2006, two G-codes have been used to 
report observation services and direct referral for observation 
care. For claims for dates of service January 1, 2006 through 
December 31, 2007, the Integrated Outpatient Code Editor 
(I/OCE) determines whether the observation care or direct 
referral services are packaged or separately payable. Thus, 
hospitals provide consistent coding and billing under all 
circumstances in which they deliver observation care. 
Beginning January 1, 2006, hospitals should not report CPT® 
codes 99217-99220 or 99234-99236 for observation services. 
In addition, the following HCPCS codes were discontinued 
as of January 1, 2006: G0244 (Observation care by facility to 
patient), G0263 (Direct Admission with congestive heart failure, 
chest pain or asthma), and G0264 (Assessment other than 
congestive heart failure, chest pain, or asthma). 
The three discontinued G-codes and the CPT® codes that 
were no longer recognized were replaced by two new G-codes 
to be used by hospitals to report all observation services, 
whether separately payable or packaged, and direct referral for 
observation care, whether separately payable or packaged: 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
•
G0378- Hospital observation service, per hour; and
•
G0379- Direct admission of patient for hospital
observation care.
The I/OCE determines whether observation services billed 
as units of G0378 are separately payable under APC 0339 
(Observation) or whether payment for observation services 
will be packaged into the payment for other services provided 
by the hospital in the same encounter. Therefore, hospitals 
should bill HCPCS code G0378 when observation services are 
ordered and provided to any patient regardless of the patient's 
condition. The units of service should equal the number of 
hours the patient receives observation services. 
Hospitals should report G0379 when observation services 
are the result of a direct referral for observation care without 
an associated emergency room visit, hospital outpatient 
clinic visit, critical care service, or hospital outpatient surgical 
procedure (status indicator T procedure) on the day of initiation 
of observation services. Hospitals should only report HCPCS 
code G0379 when a patient is referred directly for observation 
care after being seen by a physician in the community (see 
§290.4.2 below).
Some non-repetitive OPPS services provided on the same day 
by a hospital may be billed on different claims, provided that 
all charges associated with each procedure or service being 
reported are billed on the same claim with the HCPCS code 
which describes that service. See chapter 1, section 50.2.2 
of this manual. It is vitally important that all of the charges 
that pertain to a non-repetitive, separately paid procedure or 
service be reported on lhe same claim with that procedure or 
service. It should also be emphasized that this relaxation of 
same day billing requirements for some non-repetitive services 
does not apply to non-repetitive services provided on the same 
day as either direct referral to observation care or observation 
services because the OCE claim-by-claim logic cannot 
function properly unless all services related to the episode 
of observation care, including diagnostic tests, lab services, 
hospital clinic visits, emergency department visits, critical care 
services, and status indicator T procedures, are reported on 
the same claim. Additional guidance can be found in chapter 1, 
section 50.2.2 of this manual. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 290.4.2
Separate and Packaged Payment for Direct 
Referral for Observation Services Furnished 
Between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2007 
In order to receive separate payment for a direct referral for 
observation care (APC 0604 ), the claim must show: 
1. Both HCPCS codes G0378 (Hourly Observation) and
G0379 (Direct Admit to Observation) with the same date
of service;
2. That no services with a status indicator T or V or Critical
care (APC 0617) were provided on the same day of
service as HCPCS code G0379; and
3. The observation care does not qualify for separate
payment under APC 0339.
Only a direct referral for observation services billed on a 13X 
bill type may be considered for a separate APC payment. 
Separate payment is not allowed for HCPCS code G0379, 
direct admission to observation care, when billed with the 
same date of service as a hospital clinic visit, emergency room 
visit, critical care service, or "T" status procedure. 
683 
If a bill for the direct referral for observation services does not 
meet the three requirements listed above, then payment for 
the direct referral service will be packaged into payments for 
other separately payable services provided to the beneficiary 
in the same encounter. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 290.4.3
Separate and Packaged Payment for Observation 
Services Furnished Between January 1, 2006 and 
December 31, 2007 
Separate payment may be made for observation services 
provided to a patient with congestive heart failure, chest pain, 
or asthma. The list of ICD-9-CM diagnosis codes eligible 
for separate payment is reviewed annually. Any changes in 
applicable ICD-9-CM diagnosis codes are included in the 
October quarterly update of the OPPS and also published in 
the annual OPPS Final Rule. The list of qualifying ICD-9-CM 
diagnosis codes is also published on the OPPS Web page. 
All of the following requirements must be met in order for a 
hospital to receive a separate APC payment for observation 
services through APC 0339: 
1.
Diagnosis Requirements
a. The beneficiary must have one of three medical 
conditions: congestive heart failure, chest pain, or 
asthma. 
b.
Qualifying ICD-9-CM diagnosis codes must be 
reported in Form Locator (FL) 76, Patient Reason for
Visit, or FL 67, principal diagnosis, or both in order
for the hospital to receive separate payment for APC
0339. If a qualifying ICD-9-CM diagnosis code(s) is
reported in the secondary diagnosis field, but is not
reported in either the Patient Reason for Visit field (FL
76) or in the principal diagnosis field (FL 67), separate 
payment for APC 0339 is not allowed. 
2. Observation Time 
a. Observation time must be documented in the medical 
record. 
b. Hospital billing for observation services begins at 
the clock time documented in the patient's medical 
record, which coincides with the time that observation
services are initiated in accordance with a physician's 
order for observation services. 
c. 
A beneficiary's time receiving observation services 
(and hospital billing) ends when all clinical or medical 
interventions have been completed, including follow­
up care furnished by hospital staff and physicians 
that may take place after a physician has ordered the
patient be released or admitted as an inpatient.
d. The number of units reported with HCPCS code 
G0378 must equal or exceed 8 hours. 
3. Additional Hospital Services
684 
a. The claim for observation services must include one 
of the following services in addition to the reported 
observation services. The additional services listed
below must have a line item date of service on the
same day or the day before the date reported for
observation:
An emergency department visit (APC 0609, 0613, 
0614,0615,0616) or 
•
A clinic visit (APC 0604, 0605, 0606, 0607, 0608); 
or
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
•
Critical care (APC 0617); or 
•
Direct referral for observation care reported
with HCPCS code G0379 (APC 0604 ); must be
reported on the same date of service as the date 
reported for observation services.
b. No procedure with a T status indicator can be 
reported on the same day or day before observation
care is provided.
4. Physician Evaluation
a. The beneficiary must be in the care of a physician
during the period of observation, as documented
in the medical record by outpatient registration,
discharge, and other appropriate progress notes that 
are timed, written, and signed by the physician.
b. The medical record must include documentation
that the physician explicitly assessed patient risk to 
determine that the beneficiary would benefit from 
observation care. 
Only observation services that are billed on a 13X bill type may 
be considered for a separate APC payment. 
Hospitals should bill all of the other services associated with 
the observation care, including direct referral for observation, 
hospital clinic visits, emergency room visits, critical care 
services, and T status procedures, on the same claim so that 
the claims processing logic may appropriately determine the 
payment status (either packaged or separately payable) of 
HCPCS codes G0378 and G0379. 
If a bill for observation care does not meet all of the 
requirements listed above, then payment for the observation 
care will be packaged into payments for other separately 
payable services provided to the beneficiary in the same 
encounter. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 290.5.1
Billing and Payment for Observation Services 
Beginning January 1, 2008 and December 31, 
2015 
Observation services are reported using HCPCS code 
G0378 (Hospital observation service, per hour). Beginning 
January 1, 2008, HCPCS code G0378 for hourly observation 
services is assigned status indicator N, signifying that its 
payment is always packaged. No separate payment is 
made for observation services reported with HCPCS code 
G0378, and APC 0339 is deleted as of January 1, 2008. In 
most circumstances, observation services are supportive 
and ancillary to the other services provided to a patient. 
Beginning January 1, 2014, in certain circumstances when 
o?servation care is billed in conjunction with a clinic visit, 
high level Type A emergency department visit (Level 4 or 
5)
_, _high level Type B emergency department visit (Level 5),
critical care services, or a direct referral as an integral part 
of a patient's extended encounter of care, payment may be 
made for the entire extended care encounter through APC 
8009 (Extended Assessment and Management Composite) 
when_ ceain criteria are met. Prior to January 1, 2014, in 
certain circumstances when observation care was billed in 
conjunction with a high level clinic visit (Level 5), high level 
Type A emergency department visit (Level 4 or 5), high level 
Type B emergency department visit (Level 5), critical care 
services, or a direct referral as an integral part of a patient's 
extended encounter of care, payment could be made for the 
entire extended care encounter through one of two composite 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
APCs (APCs 8002 and 8003) when certain criteria were met. 
APCs 8002 and 8003 are deleted as of January 1, 2014. For 
information about payment for extended assessment and 
management composite APC, see §10.2.1 (Composite APCs) 
of this chapter. 
There is no limitation on diagnosis for payment of APC 8009; 
however, composite APC payment will not be made when 
observation services are reported in association with a surgical 
procedure (T status procedure) or the hours of observation 
care reported are less than 8. The I/OCE evaluates every 
claim received to determine if payment through a composite 
APC is appropriate. If payment through a composite APC 
is inappropriate, the I/OCE, in conjunction with the Pricer, 
determines the appropriate status indicator, APC, and payment 
for every code on a claim. 
All of the following requirements must be met in order for 
a hospital to receive an APC payment for an extended 
assessment and management composite APC: 
1. Observation Time
a. Observation time must be documented in the medical
record.
b. Hospital billing for observation services begins at
the clock time documented in the patient's medical
record, which coincides with the time that observation
services are initiated in accordance with a physician's
order for observation services.
c. A beneficiary's time receiving observation services
(and hospital billing) ends when all clinical or medical
interventions have been completed, including follow­
up care furnished by hospital staff and physicians
that may take place after a physician has ordered the
patient be released or admitted as an inpatient.
d. The number of units reported with HCPCS code
G0378 must equal or exceed 8 hours.
2.
Additional Hospital Services
a. The claim for observation services must include one
of the following services in addition to the reported
observation services. The additional services listed
below must have a line item date of service on the
same day or the day before the date reported for
observation:
•
A Type A or B emergency department visit (CPT®
codes 99284 or 99285 or HCPCS code G0384); o
A clinic visit (HCPCS code G0463 beginning
January 1, 2014; CPT® code 99205 or 99215 prior
to January 1, 2014); or
Critical care (CPT® code 99291 ); or
•
Direct referral for observation care reported with
HCPCS code G0379 (APC 0633) must be reported
on the same date of service as the date reported
for observation services.
b.
No procedure with a T status indicator can be
reported on the same day or day before observation
care is provided.
3. Physician Evaluation.
a. The beneficiary must be in the care of a physician
during the period of observation, as documented
in the medical record by outpatient registration,
discharge, and other appropriate progress notes that
are timed, written, and signed by the physician.
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
b. The medical record must include documentation
that the physician explicitly assessed patient risk to
determine that the beneficiary would benefit from
observation care.
Criteria 1 and 3 related to observation care beginning and 
ending time and physician evaluation apply regardless of 
whether the hospital believes that the criteria will be met 
for payment of the extended encounter through extended 
assessment and management composite payment. 
Only visits, critical care and observation services that are billed 
on a 13X bill type may be considered for a composite APC 
payment. 
Non-repetitive services provided on the same day as either 
direct referral for observation care or observation services 
must be reported on the same claim because the OCE claim­
by-claim logic cannot function properly unless all services 
related to the episode of observation care, including hospital 
clinic visits, emergency department visits, critical care services, 
and T status procedures, are reported on the same claim. 
Additional guidance can be found in chapter 1, section 50.2.2 
of this manual. 
If a claim for services provided during an extended 
assessment and management encounter including observation 
care does not meet all of the requirements listed above, then 
the usual APC logic will apply to separately payable items and 
services on the claim; the special logic for direct admission will 
apply, and payment for the observation care will be packaged 
into payments for other separately payable services provided 
to the beneficiary in the same encounter. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 290.5.2
Billing and Payment for Direct Referral for 
Observation Care Furnished Beginning January 
1,2008 
Direct referral for observation is reported using HCPCS code 
G0379 (Direct referral for hospital observation care). : Prior to 
January 1, 2010, the code descriptor for HCPCS code G0379 
was (Direct admission of patient for hospital observation care). 
Hospitals should report G0379 when observation services 
are the result of a direct referral for observation care without 
an associated emergency room visit, hospital outpatient 
clinic visit, or critical care service on the day of initiation of 
observation services. Hospitals should only report HCPCS 
code G0379 when a patient is referred directly to observation 
care after being seen by a physician in the community. 
Payment for direct referral for observation care will be made 
either separately as a low level hospital clinic visit under APC 
0633 (Level 3 Examinations & Related Services) or packaged 
into payment for composite APC 8009 (Extended Assessment 
and Management Composite) or packaged into the payment 
for other separately payable services provided in the same 
encounter. For information about payment for extended 
assessment and management composite APCs, see, §10.2.1 
(Composite APCs) of this chapter. 
The criteria for payment of HCPCS code G0379 under either 
APC 0633 or APC 8009 include: 
1. Both HCPCS codes G0378 (Hospital observation
services, per hr.) and G0379 (Direct referral for hospital
observation care) are reported with the same date of
service.
685 
2. No service with a status indicator of T or V or Critical 
Care (APC 0617) is provided on the same day of service 
as HCPCS code G0379. 
If either of the above criteria is not met, HCPCS code G0379 
will be assigned status indicator N and will be packaged into 
payment for other separately payable services provided in the 
same encounter. 
Only a direct referral for observation services billed on a 13X 
bill type may be considered for a comprehensive APC payment 
through the Comprehensive Observation Services APC (APC 
8011 ). 
100-4, Chapter-4, 300.6
Common Working File (CWF) Edits 
The Common Working File (CWF) edit will allow 3 hours 
of therapy for MNT in the initial calendar year. The edit will 
allow more than 3 hours of therapy if there is a change in 
the beneficiary's medical condition, diagnosis, or treatment 
regimen and this change must be documented in the 
beneficiary's medical record. Two new G codes have been 
created for use when a beneficiary receives a second referral 
in a calendar year that allows the beneficiary to receive more 
than 3 hours of therapy. Another edit will allow 2 hours of follow 
up MNT with another referral in subsequent years. 
Advance Beneficiary Notice (ABN) 
The beneficiary is liable for services denied over the limited 
number of hours with referrals for MNT. An ABN should be 
issued in these situations. In absence of evidence of a valid 
ABN, the provider will be held liable. 
An ABN should not be issued for Medicare-covered services 
such as those provided by hospital dietitians or nutrition 
professionals who are qualified to render the service in their 
state but who have not obtained Medicare provider numbers. 
Duplicate Edits 
Although beneficiaries are allowed to receive training 
and therapy during the same time period Diabetes Self­
Management and Training (DSMT) and Medical Nutrition 
Therapy (MNT) services may not be provided on the same 
day to the same beneficiary. Effective April 1, 201 O CWF 
shall implement a new duplicate crossover edit to identify 
and prevent claims for DSMT/MNT services from being billed 
with the same dates of services for the same beneficiaries 
submitted from institutional providers and from a professional 
provider. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 320
Outpatient Intravenous Insulin Treatment (OIVIT) 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after 
December 23, 2009, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services (CMS) determines that the evidence does not support 
a conclusion that OIVIT improves health outcomes in Medicare 
beneficiaries. Therefore, CMS has determined that OIVIT is 
not reasonable and necessary for any indication under section 
1862(a)(1 )(A) of the Social Security Act. Services comprising 
an OIVIT regimen are nationally non-covered under Medicare 
when furnished pursuant to an OIVIT regimen. 
See Pub. 100-03, Medicare National Coverage Determinations 
Manual, Section 40.7, Outpatient Intravenous Insulin 
Treatment (Effective December 23, 2009), for general 
information and coverage indications. 
686 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-4, 320.1
HCPCS Coding for OIVIT 
HCPCS code G9147, effective with the April IOCE and 
MPFSDB updates, is to be used on claims with dates of 
service on and after December 23, 2009, billing for non­
covered OIVIT and any services comprising an OIVIT regimen. 
NOTE: HCPCS codes 99199 or 94681 (with or without diabetes 
related conditions 250.00-250.93) are not to be used on claims 
billing for non-covered OIVIT and any services comprising an 
OIVIT regimen when furnished pursuant to an OIVIT regimen. 
Claims billing for HCPCS codes 99199 and 94681 for non­
covered OIVIT are to be returned to provider/returned as 
unprocessable. 
100-4, Chapter-4, 320.2
Medicare Summary Notices (MSN), Reason 
Codes, and Remark Codes 
Contractors shall return non-covered OIVIT claims billed with 
HCPCS 99199 to provider/return as unprocessable. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when rejecting/denying 
claims under this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is 
compliant with CAQH CORE Business Scenario Two. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 16 
RARC: MA66, N56 
MSN: N/A 
Contractors shall return non-covered OIVIT claims billed with 
HCPCS 94681 with or without diabetes-related conditions 250-
00-250.93 to provider/return as unprocessable. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when rejecting/denying 
claims under this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is 
compliant with CAQH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 16 
RARC: MA66, N56 
ly!SN: N/A 
Contractors shall deny claims for non-covered OIVIT and any 
services comprising an OIVIT regimen billed with HCPCS code 
G9147. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when rejecting/denying 
claims under this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is 
compliant with CAQH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 96 
RARC: N386 
MSN: 16.10 
100-4, Chapter-5, 10.2
The Financial Limitation Legislation 
A. Legislation on Limitations
The dollar amount of the limitations (caps) on outpatient 
therapy services is established by statute. The updated 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
amount of the caps is released annually via Recurring Update 
Notifications and posted on the CMS Website www.cms. 
gov/TherapyServices, on contractor Websites, and on each 
beneficiary's Medicare Summary Notice. Medicare contractors 
shall publish the financial limitation amount in educational 
articles. It is also available at 1-800-Medicare. 
Section 4541 (a)(2) of the Balanced Budget Act (BBA) (P.L. 
105-33) of 1997, which added §1834(k)(5) to the Act, required
payment under a prospective payment system (PPS) for 
outpatient rehabilitation services (except those furnished by or
under arrangements with a hospital). Outpatient rehabilitation 
services include the following services:
Physical therapy 
Speech-language pathology; and 
•
Occupational therapy. 
Section 4541 (c) of the BBA required application of financial 
limitations to all outpatient rehabilitation services (except those 
furnished by or under arrangements with a hospital). In 1999, 
an annual per beneficiary limit of $1,500 was applied, including 
all outpatient physical therapy services and speech-language 
pathology services. A separate limit applied to all occupational 
therapy services. The limits were based on incurred expenses 
and included applicable deductible and coinsurance. The BBA 
provided that the limits be indexed by the Medicare Economic 
Index (MEI) each year beginning in 2002. 
Since the limitations apply to outpatient services, they do 
not apply to skilled nursing facility (SNF) residents in a 
covered Part A stay, including patients occupying swing 
beds. Rehabilitation services are included within the global 
Part A per diem payment that the SNF receives under the 
prospective payment system (PPS) for the covered stay. Also, 
limitations do not apply to any therapy services covered under 
prospective payment systems for home health or inpatient 
hospitals, including critical access hospitals. 
The limitation is based on therapy services the Medicare 
beneficiary receives, not the type of practitioner who provides 
the service. Physical therapists, speech-language pathologists, 
and occupational therapists, as well as physicians and certain 
nonphysician practitioners, could render a therapy service. 
B. Moratoria and Exceptions for Therapy Claims
Since the creation of therapy caps, Congress has enacted 
several moratoria. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 directed 
CMS to develop exceptions to therapy caps for calendar year 
2006 and the exceptions have been extended periodically. 
The cap exception for therapy services billed by outpatient 
hospitals was part of the original legislation and applies as long 
as caps are in effect. Exceptions to caps based on the medical 
necessity of the service are in effect only when Congress 
legislates the exceptions. 
C. Repeal of Original Legislation and Replacement with
Thresholds to Ensure Appropriate Therapy.
Section 50202 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 repeals 
application of the Medicare outpatient therapy caps but 
retains the former cap amounts as a threshold of incurred 
expenses above which claims must include a modifier as a 
confirmation that services are medically necessary as justified 
by appropriate documentation in the medical record. This is 
termed the KX modifier threshold. 
Along with this KX modifier threshold, the new law retains 
the targeted medical review process but at a lower threshold 
amount of $3,000. For more information about the medical 
review (MR) threshold see the below section 10.3.4. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-4, Chapter-5, 10. 6
Functional Reporting 
A. General
Section 3005(g) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Jobs 
Creation Act (MCTRJCA) amended Section 1833(9) of the Act 
to require a claims-based data collection system for outpatient 
therapy services, including physical therapy (PT), occupational 
therapy (OT) and speech-language pathology (SLP) services. 
42 CFR 410.59, 410.60, 410.61, 410.62 and 410.105 implement 
this requirement. The system will collect data on beneficiary 
function during the course of therapy services in order to better 
understand beneficiary conditions, outcomes, and expenditures. 
Beneficiary unction information is reported using 42 
nonpayable functional G-codes and seven severity/complexity 
modifiers on claims for PT, OT, and SLP services. Functional 
reporting on one functional limitation at a time is required 
periodically throughout an entire PT, OT, or SLP therapy 
episode of care. 
The nonpayable G-codes and severity modifiers provide 
information about the beneficiary's functional status at the 
outset of the therapy episode of care, including projected 
goal status, at specified points during treatment, and at the 
time of discharge. These G-codes, along with the associated 
modifiers, are required at specified intervals on all claims for 
outpatient therapy services - not just those over the cap. 
In the CY 2019 Physician Fee Schedule final rule, CMS-
1693-F, after consideration of stakeholders' requests 
for burden reduction, a review of all of the MCTRJCA 
requirements, and in light of the statutory amendments to 
section 1833(g) of the Act, via section 50202 of Bipartisan 
Budget Act of 2018 to repeal the therapy caps, CMS concluded 
that continued collection of functional reporting data through 
the same format would not yield additional information to 
inform future analyses or to serve as a basis for reforms to 
the payment system for therapy services. The rule ended the 
functional reporting requirements to reduce burden of reporting 
for providers of therapy services and revised regulation text at 
42 CFR 410.59, 410.60, 410.61, 410.62, 410.105, accordingly. 
The instructions below apply only to dates of service when the 
reporting requirement was effective, January 1, 2013 through 
December 31, 2018. 
B. Application of Coding Requirements
This functional data reporting and collection system is effective 
for therapy services with dates of service on and after January 
1, 2013 and before January 1, 2019. 
C. Services Affected
These requirements apply to all claims for services furnished 
under the Medicare Part B outpatient therapy benefit and the 
PT, OT, and SLP services furnished under the CORF benefit. 
They also apply to the therapy services furnished personally 
by and incident to the service of a physician or a nonphysician 
practitioner (NPP), including a nurse practitioner (NP), a 
certified nurse specialist (CNS), or a physician assistant (PA), 
as applicable. 
D. Providers and Practitioners Affected.
The functional reporting requirements apply to the therapy 
services furnished by the following providers: hospitals, CAHs, 
SNFs, CORFs, rehabilitation agencies, and HHAs (when the 
beneficiary is not under a home health plan of care). It applies 
to the following practitioners: physical therapists, occupational 
therapists, and speech-language pathologists in private 
practice (TPPs), physicians, and NPPs as noted above. The 
687 
term "clinician" is applied to these practitioners throughout 
this manual section. (See definition section of Pub. 100-02, 
Chapter 15, section 220.) 
E. Function-related G-codes
There are 42 functional G-codes, 14 sets of three codes each. 
Six of the G-code sets are generally for PT and OT functional 
limitations and eight sets of G-codes are for SLP functional 
limitations. 
The following G-codes are for functional limitations typically 
seen in beneficiaries receiving PT or OT services. The first four 
of these sets describe categories of functional limitations and 
the final two sets describe "other" functional limitations, which 
are to be used for functional limitations not described by one of 
the four categories. 
NONPAYABLE G-CODES FOR FUNCTIONAL LIMITATIONS 
Code 
Long Descriptor 
Short Descriptor 
Mobility G-code Set 
G8978 
Mobility: walking & moving around functional 
Mobility current 
limitation, current status, at therapy episode 
status 
outset and at reporting intervals 
G8979 
Mobility: walking & moving around functional 
Mobility goal 
limitation, projected goal status, at therapy 
status 
episode outset, at reporting intervals, and at 
discharge or to end reporting 
G8980 
Mobility: walking & moving around functional 
Mobility D/C 
limitation, discharge status, at discharge from status 
therapy or to end reporting 
Changing & Maintaining Body Position G-code Set 
G8981 
Changing & maintaining body position 
Body pas current 
functional limitation, current status, at therapy status 
episode outset and at reporting intervals 
G8982 
Changing & maintaining body position 
Body pas goal 
functional limitation, projected goal status, at 
status 
therapy episode outset, at reporting intervals, 
and at discharge or to end reporting 
G8983 
Changing & maintaining body position 
Body pas D/C 
functional limitation, discharge status, at 
status 
discharge from therapy or to end reporting 
Carrying, Moving & Handling Objects G-code Set 
G8984 
Carrying, moving & handling objects 
Carry current 
functional limitation, current status, at therapy status 
episode outset and at reporting intervals 
G8985 
Carrying, moving & handling objects 
Carry goal status 
functional limitation, projected goal status, at 
therapy episode outset, at reporting intervals, 
and at discharge or to end reporting 
G8986 
Carrying, moving & handling objects 
Carry DIC status 
functional limitation, discharge status, at 
discharge from therapy or to end reporting 
Self-Care G-code Set 
G8987 
Self-care functional limitation, current status, 
Self-care current 
at therapy episode outset and at reporting 
status 
intervals 
G8988 
Self-care functional limitation, projected goal 
Self-care goal 
status, at therapy episode outset, at reporting 
status 
intervals, and at discharge or to end reporting 
G8989 
Self-care functional limitation, discharge status, 
Self-care DIC
at discharge from therapy or to end reporting 
status 
688 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
The following "other PT/OT" functional G-codes are used to 
report: 
a beneficiary's functional limitation that is not defined by 
one of the above four categories; 
•
a beneficiary whose therapy services are not intended to 
treat a functional limitation;
or a beneficiary's functional limitation when an overall,
composite or other score from a functional assessment
too is used and it does not clearly represent a functional
limitation defined by one of the above four code sets. 
Code 
Long Descriptor 
Short Descriptor 
Other PT/OT Primary G-code Set 
G8990 
Other physical or occupational therapy 
Other PT/OT 
primary functional limitation, current status, 
current status 
at therapy episode outset and at reporting 
intervals 
G8991 
Other physical or occupational therapy 
Other PT/OT goal 
primary functional limitation, projected goal 
status 
status, at therapy episode outset, at reporting 
intervals, and at discharge or to end reporting 
G8992 
Other physical or occupational therapy 
Other PT/OT DIC 
primary functional limitation, discharge 
status 
status, at discharge from therapy or to end 
reporting 
Other PT/OT Subsequent G-code Set 
G8993 
Other physical or occupational therapy 
Sub PT/OT 
subsequent functional limitation, current 
current status 
status, at therapy episode outset and at 
reporting intervals 
G8994 
Other physical or occupational therapy 
Sub PT/OT goal 
subsequent functional limitation, projected 
status 
goal status, at therapy episode outset, at 
reporting intervals, and at discharge or to end 
reporting 
G8995 
Other physical or occupational subsequent 
Sub PT/OT DIC 
functional limitation, discharge from therapy 
status 
or end reporting. 
The following G-codes are for functional limitations typically 
seen in beneficiaries receiving SLP services. Seven are 
for specific functional communication measures, which are 
modeled after the National Outcomes Measurement System 
(NOMS), and one is for any "other" measure not described by 
one of the other seven. 
Code 
Long Descriptor 
Short Descriptor 
Swallowing G-code Set 
G8996 
Swallowing functional limitation, current 
Swallow current 
status, at therapy episode outset and at 
status 
reporting intervals 
G8997 
Swallowing functional limitation, projected 
Swallow goal 
goal status, at therapy episode outset, at 
status 
reporting intervals, and at discharge or to end 
reporting 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
G8998 
Swallowing functional limitation, discharge 
status, at discharge from therapy or to end 
reporting 
Motor Speech G-code Set 
(NOTE: These codes are not sequentially numbered) 
G8999 
G9186 
G9158 
Motor speech functional limitation, current 
status, at therapy episode outset and at 
reporting intervals 
Motor speech functional limitation, projected 
goal status at therapy episode outset, at 
reporting intervals, and at discharge or to end 
reporting 
Motor speech functional limitation, discharge 
status, at discharge from therapy or to end 
reporting 
Spoken Language Comprehension G-code Set 
G9159 
Spoken language comprehension functional 
limitation, current status, at therapy episode 
outset and at reporting intervals 
G9160 
Spoken language comprehension functional 
limitation, projected goal status, at therapy 
episode outset, at reporting intervals, and at 
discharge or to end reporting 
G9161 
Spoken language comprehension functional 
limitation, discharge status, at discharge from 
therapy or to end reporting 
Spoken Language Expressive G-code Set 
G9162 
Spoken language expression functional 
limitation, current status, at therapy episode 
outset and at reporting intervals 
G9163 
Spoken language expression functional 
limitation, projected goal status, at therapy 
episode outset, at reporting intervals, and at 
discharge or to end reporting 
G9164 
Spoken language expression functional 
limitation, discharge status, at discharge from 
therapy or to end reporting 
Attention G-code Set 
G9165 
G9166 
G9167 
Attention functional limitation, current status, 
at therapy episode outset and at reporting 
intervals 
Attention functional limitation, projected goal 
status, at therapy episode outset, at reporting 
intervals, and at discharge or to end reporting 
Attention functional limitation, discharge 
status, at discharge from therapy or to end 
reporting 
Memory G-code Set 
G9168 
Memory functional limitation, current status, 
at therapy episode outset and at reporting 
intervals 
Swallow DIC 
status 
Motor speech 
current status 
Motor speech 
goal status 
Motor speech 
DIC status 
Lang comp 
current status 
Lang comp goal 
status 
Lang comp DIC
status 
Lang express 
current status 
Lang press goal 
status 
Lang express 
D/C status 
Atten current 
status 
Atten goal status 
Atten D/C status 
Memory current 
status 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
G9169 
Memory functional limitation, projected goal 
Memory goal 
status, at therapy episode outset, at reporting status 
intervals, and at discharge or to end reporting 
G9170 
Memory functional limitation, discharge 
Memory D/C 
status, at discharge from therapy or to end 
status 
reporting 
Voice G-code Set 
G9171 
Voice functional limitation, current status, 
Voice current 
at therapy episode outset and at reporting 
status 
intervals 
G9172 
Voice functional limitation, projected goal 
Voice goal status 
status, at therapy episode outset, at reporting 
intervals, and at discharge or to end reporting 
G9173 
Voice functional limitation, discharge status, 
Voice DIC status 
at discharge from therapy or to end reporting 
The following "other SLP" G-code set is used to report: 
Code 
on one of the other eight NOMS-defined functional 
measures not described by the above code sets; or 
to report an overall, composite or other score from 
assessment tool that does not clearly represent one of 
the above seven categorical SLP functional measures. 
Long Descriptor 
Short Descriptor 
Other Speech Language Pathology G-code Set 
G9174 
G9175 
G9176 
Other speech language pathology functional 
limitation, current status, at therapy episode 
outset and at reporting intervals 
Other speech language pathology functional 
limitation, projected goal status, at therapy 
episode outset, at reporting intervals, and at 
discharge or to end reporting 
Speech lang 
current status 
Speech lang goal 
status 
Other speech language pathology functional 
Speech lang DIC
limitation, discharge status, at discharge from status 
therapy or to end reporting 
F. Severity/Complexity Modifiers
For each nonpayable functional G-code, one of the modifiers 
listed below must be used to report the severity/complexity for 
that functional limitation. 
Modifier Impairment Limitation Restriction 
CH 
0 percent impaired, limited or restricted 
Cl 
At least 1 percent but less than 20 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
CJ 
At least 20 percent but less than 40 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
CK 
At least 40 percent but less than 60 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
CL 
At least 60 percent but less than 80 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
CM 
At least 80 percent but less than 100 percent impaired, limited or 
restricted 
CN 
100 percent impaired, limited or restricted 
689 
The severity modifiers reflect the beneficiary's percentage of 
functional impairment as determined by the clinician furnishing 
the therapy services. 
G. Required Reporting of Functional G-codes and
Severity Modifiers
The functional G-codes and severity modifiers listed above 
are used in the required reporting on therapy claims at certain 
specified points during therapy episodes of care. Claims 
containing these functional G-codes must also contain another 
billable and separately payable (non-bundled) service. Only 
one functional limitation shall be reported at a given time for 
each related therapy plan of care (POC). 
Functional reporting using the G-codes and corresponding 
severity modifiers is required reporting on specified therapy 
claims. Specifically, they are required on claims: 
At the outset of a therapy episode of care (i.e., on the 
claim for the date of service (DOS) of the initial therapy 
service); 
•
At least once every 10 treatment days, which
corresponds with the progress reporting period;
•
When an evaluative procedure, including a re-evaluative 
one, ( HCPCS/CPT® codes 92521, 92522, 92523, 92524, 
92597,92607,92608,92610,92611,92612,92614, 
92616, 96105, 96125,97001, 97002, 97003, 97004) is
furnished and billed;
At the time of discharge from the therapy episode of 
care-(i.e., on the date services related to the discharge 
[progress] report are furnished); and 
•
At the time reporting of a particular functional limitation
is ended in cases where the need for further therapy is
necessary.
•
At the time reporting is begun for a new or different 
functional limitation within the same episode of care
(i.e., after the reporting of the prior functional limitation is
ended).
Functional reporting is required on claims throughout the entire 
episode of care. When the beneficiary has reached his or her 
goal or progress has been maximized on the initially selected 
functional limitation, but the need for treatment continues, 
reporting is required for a second functional limitation using 
another set of G-codes. In these situations two or more 
functional limitations will be reported for a beneficiary during 
the therapy episode of care. Thus, reporting on more than one 
functional limitation may be required for some beneficiaries but 
not simultaneously. 
When the beneficiary stops coming to therapy prior to 
discharge, the clinician should report the functional information 
on the last claim. If the clinician is unaware that the beneficiary 
is not returning for therapy until after the last claim is 
submitted, the clinician cannot report the discharge status. 
When functional reporting is required on a claim for therapy 
services, two G-codes will generally be required. 
Two exceptions exist: 
1. Therapy services under more than one therapy POC -
Claims may contain more than two nonpayable functional 
G-codes when in cases where a beneficiary receives 
therapy services under multiple POCs (PT, OT, and/or 
SLP) from the same therapy provider. 
690 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
2. One-Time Therapy Visit- When a beneficiary is seen
and future therapy services are either not medically
indicated or are going to be furnished by another
provider, the clinician reports on the claim for the DOS
of the visit, all three G-codes in the appropriate code set 
( current status, goal status and discharge status), along 
with corresponding severity modifiers. 
Each reported functional G-code must also contain the 
following line of service information: 
•
Functional severity modifier 
Therapy modifier indicating the related discipline/POC
- GP, GO or GN - for PT, OT, and SLP services,
respectively 
Date of the related therapy service 
Nominal charge, e.g., a penny, for institutional claims 
submitted to the A/8 MACs (A). For professional 
claims, a zero charge is acceptable for the service 
line. If provider billing software requires an amount for 
professional claims, a nominal charge, e.g., a penny, 
may be included. 
NOTE: The KX modifier is not required on the claim line for 
nonpayable G-codes, but would be required with the procedure 
code for medically necessary therapy services furnished once 
the beneficiary's annual cap has been reached. 
The following example demonstrates how the G-codes and 
modifiers are used. In this example, the clinician determines 
that the beneficiary's mobility restriction is the most clinically 
relevant functional limitation and selects the Mobility G-code 
set (G8978 - G8980) to represent the beneficiary's functional 
limitation. The clinician also determines the severity/complexity 
of the beneficiary's functional limitation and selects the 
appropriate modifier. In this example, the clinician determines 
that the beneficiary has a 75 percent mobility restriction for 
which the CL modifier is applicable. The clinician expects 
that at the end of therapy the beneficiaries will have only a 
15 percent mobility restriction for which the Cl modifier is 
applicable. When the beneficiary attains the mobility goal, 
therapy continues to be medically necessary to address a 
functional limitation for which there is no categorical G-code. 
The clinician reports this using (G8990 - G8992). 
At the outset of therapy - On the DOS for which the initial 
evaluative procedure is furnished or the initial treatment day of 
a therapy POC, the claim for the service will also include two 
G-codes as shown below. 
•
G8978-CL to report the functional limitation (Mobility with 
current mobility limitation of "at least 60 percent but less
than 80 percent impaired, limited or restricted") 
•
G8979-CI to report the projected goal for a mobility
restriction of "at least 1 percent but less than 20 percent
impaired, limited or restricted."
At the end of each progress reporting period - On the claim 
for the DOS when the services related to the progress report 
(which must be done at least once each 10 treatment days) 
are furnished, the clinician will report the same two G-codes 
but the modifier for the current status may be different. 
•
G8978 with the appropriate modifier are reported to show 
the beneficiary's current status as of this DOS. So if the
beneficiary has made no progress, this claim will include 
G8978-CL. If the beneficiary made progress and now
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
has a mobility restriction of 65 percent CL would still be 
the appropriate modifier for 65 percent, and G8978-CL 
would be reported in this case. If the beneficiary now has 
a mobility restriction of 45 percent, G8978-CK would be 
reported. 
G8979-CI would be reported to show the projected goal. 
This severity modifier would not change unless the 
clinician adjusts the beneficiary's goal. 
This step is repeated as necessary and clinically appropriate, 
adjusting the current status modifier used as the beneficiary 
progresses through therapy. 
At the time the beneficiary is discharged from the therapy 
episode. The final claim for therapy episode will include two 
G-codes.
G8979-CI would be reported to show the projected 
goal. G8980-CI would be reported if the beneficiary 
attained the 15 percent mobility goal. Alternatively, if the 
beneficiary's mobility restriction only reached 25 percent; 
G8980-CJ would be reported. 
To end reporting of one functional limitation -As noted above, 
functional reporting is required to continue throughout the 
entire episode of care. Accordingly, when further therapy is 
medically necessary after the beneficiary attains the goal for 
the first reported functional limitation, the clinician would end 
reporting of the first functional limitation by using the same 
G-codes and modifiers that would be used at the time of 
discharge. Using the mobility example, to end reporting of the
mobility functional limitation, G8979-CI and G8980-CI would 
be reported on the same DOS that coincides with end of that 
progress reporting period.
To begin reporting of a second functional limitation. At the time 
reporting is begun for a new and different functional limitation, 
within the same episode of care (i.e., after the reporting of 
the prior functional limitation is ended). Reporting on the 
second functional limitation, however, is not begun until the 
DOS of the next treatment day - which is day one of the new 
progress reporting period. When the next functional limitation 
to be reported is NOT defined by one of the other three PT/ 
OT categorical codes, the G-code set (G8990 - G8992) for 
the "other PT/OT primary" functional limitation is used, rather 
than the G-code set for the "other PT/OT subsequent" because 
ii is the first reported "other PT/OT" functional limitation. 
This reporting begins on the DOS of the first treatment day 
following the mobility "discharge" reporting, which is counted 
as the initial service for the "other PT/OT primary" functional 
limitation and the first treatment day of the new progress 
reporting period. In this case, G8990 and G8991, along with 
the corresponding modifiers, are reported on the claim for 
therapy services. 
The table below illustrates when reporting is required using 
this example and what G-codes would be used. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Example of Required Reporting 
1ii 
Key: Reporting 
Period (RP) 
 
:a 
0 
 
.5 >. 
0) "' 
Q) 0 
 
Q) 
.r:: 
:::;; .; :g  co -
N 
r:: 
,.., Q) 
Mobility: Walking & 
Moving Around 
88978 - Current 
Status 
8 8979-8oal 
Status 
88980 - Discharge 
Status 
Other PT/OT 
Primary 
88990 - Current 
Status 
88991-8oal 
Status 
88992 - Discharge 
Status 
No Functional 
Reporting Required 
0 -
::, 
-o
,.., 
Q) 
Q,, "C 
0:: 
0 
C ,!:!,? 
·-
Q. 
C>W 
"ta 
X 
X 
:::;; 
0 
0 g-
- o:: - .,
 .,, 
0:: " 
"C 0) 
r:: e 
w Q,, 
X 
X 
a.. E 
0:: 1ii 
i!'	 
:.: 1-
:E )( 
0 
Q) 
:E:z 
X 
X 
X 
X 
-c 
r:: 
 
0 = 
0.., 
-
0 
o:::;; 
X 
X 
X 
X 
H. Required Tracking and Documentation of Functional
G-codes and Severity Modifiers
The clinician who furnishes the services must not only report 
the functional information on the therapy claim, but, he/she 
must track and document the G-codes and severity modifiers 
used for this reporting in the beneficiary's medical record of 
therapy services. 
For details related to the documentation requirements, refer 
to, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Pub. 100-02, Chapter 
15, section 220.4 - Functional Reporting. For coverage rules 
related to MCTRJCA and therapy goals, refer to Pub. 100-02: 
a) for outpatient therapy services, see Chapter 15, section
220.1.2 B and b) for instructions specific to PT, OT, and SLP
services in the CORF, see Chapter 12, section 10. 
100-4, Chapter-5, 20
HCPCS Coding Requirement 
A. Uniform Coding
Section 1834(k)(5) of the Act requires that all claims 
for outpatient rehabilitation therapy services and all 
comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facility (CORF) 
services be reported using a uniform coding system. The 
current Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System/ 
Current Procedural Terminology is used for the reporting of 
these services. The uniform coding requirement in the Act 
is specific to payment for all CORF services and outpatient 
rehabilitation therapy services - including physical therapy, 
occupational therapy, and speech-language pathology - that 
is provided and billed to Medicare contractors. The Medicare 
physician fee schedule (MPFS) is used to make payment for 
these therapy services at the non facility rate. 
Effective for claims submitted on or after April 1, 1998, 
providers that had not previously reported HCPCS/CPT® for 
691 
outpatient rehabilitation and CORF services began using 
HCPCS to report these services. This requirement does not 
apply to outpatient rehabilitation services provided by: 
•
Critical access hospitals, which are paid on a cost basis, 
not MPFS; 
RHCs, and FQHCs for which therapy is included in the
all-inclusive rate; or 
Providers that do not furnish therapy services.
The following "providers of services" must bill the A/B MAC (A) 
for outpatient rehabilitation services using HCPCS codes: 
•
Hospitals (to outpatients and inpatients who are not in a
covered Part A stay); 
Skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) (to residents not in a
covered Part A stay and to nonresidents who receive
outpatient rehabilitation services from the SNF);
•
Home health agencies (HHAs) (to individuals who are
not homebound or otherwise are not receiving services
under a home health plan of care (POC).
Comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facilities
(CORFs); and
•
Providers of outpatient physical therapy and speech­
language pathology services (OPTs), also known as 
rehabilitation agencies (previously termed outpatient
physical therapy facilities in this instruction).
Note 1. The requirements for hospitals and SNFs apply to 
inpatient Part B and outpatient services only. Inpatient Part A 
services are bundled into the respective prospective payment 
system payment; no separate payment is made. 
Note 2. For HHAs, HCPCS/CPT® coding for outpatient 
rehabilitation services is required only when the HHA provides 
such service to individuals that are not homebound and, 
therefore, not under a home health plan of care. 
The following practitioners must bill the A/B MAC (B) for 
outpatient rehabilitation therapy services using HCPCS/CPT® 
codes: 
•
Physical therapists in private practice (PTPPs),
•
Occupational therapists in private practice (OTPPs),
•
Speech-language pathologists in private practice
(SLPPs), 
•
Physicians, including MDs, DOs, podiatrists and
optometrists, and
Certain nonphysician practitioners (NPPs), acting within 
their State scope of practice, e.g., nurse practitioners and 
clinical nurse specialists.
Providers billing to intermediaries shall report: 
The date the therapy plan of care was either established 
or last reviewed (see §220.1.3B) in Occurrence Code 17, 
29, or 30. 
•
The first day of treatment in Occurrence Code 35, 44, or
45.
B. Applicable Outpatient Rehabilitation HCPCS Codes
The CMS identifies the codes listed at: 
https://www.cms.gov/medicare/billing/ 
therapyservices?redirect=/therapyservices/05 annual 
therapy_update.asp#TopOfPage as therapy services, -
regardless of the presence of a financial limitation. Therapy 
services include only physical therapy, occupational therapy 
692 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
and speech-language pathology services. Therapist means 
only a physical therapist, occupational therapist or speech 
language pathologist. Therapy modifiers are GP for physical 
therapy, GO for occupational therapy, and GN for speech­
language pathology. 
When in effect, any financial limitation will also apply to 
services represented unless otherwise noted on the therapy 
page on the CMS Web site. 
C. Additional HCPCS Codes
Some HCPCS/CPT® codes that are not on the list of 
therapy services should not be billed with a modifier. For 
example, outpatient non-rehabilitation HCPCS codes 
G0237, G0238, and G0239 should be billed without therapy 
modifiers. These HCPCS codes describe services for the 
improvement of respiratory function and may represent 
either "incident to" services or respiratory therapy services 
that may be appropriately billed in the CORF setting. When 
the services described by these G-codes are provided by 
physical therapists (PTs) or occupational therapists (OTs) 
treating respiratory conditions, they are considered therapy 
services and must meet the other conditions for physical and 
occupational therapy. The PT or OT would use the appropriate 
HCPCS/CPT® code(s) in the 97000 - 97799 series and the 
corresponding therapy modifier, GP or GO, must be used. 
Another example of codes that are not on the list of therapy 
services and should not be billed with a therapy modifier 
includes the following HCPCS codes: 95860, 95861, 95863, 
95864,95867,95869,95870,95900, 95903,95904,and 
95934. These services represent diagnostic services - not 
therapy services; they must be appropriately billed and shall 
not include therapy modifiers. 
Other codes not on the therapy code list, and not paid under 
another fee schedule, are appropriately billed with therapy 
modifiers when the services are furnished by therapists or 
provided under a therapy plan of care and where the services 
are covered and appropriately delivered (e.g., the therapist is 
qualified to provide the service). One example of non-listed 
codes where a therapy modifier is indicated regards the 
provision of services described in the CPT® code series, 29000 
through 29590, for the application of casts and strapping. Some 
of these codes previously appeared on the therapy code list, 
but were deleted because we determined that they represented 
services that are most often performed outside a therapy plan of 
care. However, when these services are provided by therapists 
or as an integral part of a therapy plan of care, the CPT® code 
must be accompanied with the appropriate therapy modifier. 
NOTE: The above lists of HCPCS/CPT® codes are intended to 
facilitate the contractor's ability to pay claims under the MPFS. 
It is not intended to be an exhaustive list of covered services, 
imply applicability to provider settings, and does not assure 
coverage of these services. 
100-4, Chapter-5, 20.4
Coding Guidance for Certain CPT® Codes -All 
Claims 
The following provides guidance about the use of codes 
96105,97026,97150,97545,97546,andG0128. 
CPT® Codes 96105, 97545, and 97546. 
Providers report code 96105, assessment of aphasia with 
interpretation and report in 1- hour units. This code represents 
formal evaluation of aphasia with an instrument such as 
the Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination. If this formal 
assessment is performed during treatment, it is typically 
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
performed only once during treatment and its medical 
necessity should be documented. If the test is repeated during 
treatment, the medical necessity of the repeat administration 
of the test must also be documented. It is common practice 
for regular assessment of a patient's progress in therapy to 
be documented in the chart, and this may be done using test 
items taken from the formal examinations. This is considered 
to be part of the treatment and should not be billed as 96105 
unless a full, formal assessment is completed. 
Other timed physical medicine codes are 97545 and 97546. 
The interval for code 97545 is 2 hours and for code 97546, 1 
hour. These are specialized codes to be used in the context 
of rehabilitating a worker to return to a job. The expectation 
is that the entire time period specified in the codes 97545 or 
97546 would be the treatment period, since a shorter period 
of treatment could be coded with another code such as codes 
97110, 97112, or 97537. (Codes 97545 and 97546 were 
developed for reporting services to persons in the worker's 
compensation program, thus CMS does not expect to see 
them reported for Medicare patients except under very unusual 
circumstances. Further, CMS would not expect to see code 
97546 without also seeing code 97545 on the same claim. 
Code 97546, when used, is used in conjunction with 97545.) 
CPT® Code 97026 
Effective for services performed on or after October 24, 2006, 
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services announce a 
NCO stating the use of infrared and/or near-infrared light and/ 
or heat, including monochromatic infrared energy (MIRE), is 
non-covered for the treatment, including symptoms such as pain 
arising from these conditions, of diabetic and/or non-diabetic 
peripheral sensory neuropathy, wounds and/or ulcers of the skin 
and/or subcutaneous tissues in Medicare beneficiaries. Further 
coverage guidelines can be found in the National Coverage 
Determination Manual (Pub. 100-03), section 270.6. 
Contractors shall deny claims with CPT® 97026 (infrared 
therapy incident to or as a PT/OT benefit) and HCPCS E0221 
or A4639, if the claim contains any of the following diagnosis 
codes: 
ICD-9-CM 
250.60 - 250.63 
354.4, 354.5, 354.9 
355.1 - 355.4 
355.6 - 355.9 
356.0, 356.2-356.4, 356.8-356.9 
357.0 - 357.7 
674.10, 674.12, 674.14, 674.20, 674.22, 674.24 
707.00 -707.07, 707.09-707.15, 707.19 
870.0 - 879.9 
880.00 - 887.7 
890.0 - 897.7 
998.31 - 998.32 
ICD-10-CM 
See Addendum A Chapter 5, Section 20.4 (at end of this 
chapter) for the list of ICD 10- CM diagnosis codes that require 
denial with the above HCPCD codes. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when rejecting/denying 
claims under this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is 
compliant with CAQH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Med;ca/ Assodat;on. A/1 r;ghts reserved. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 50 
RARC: N/A 
MSN: 21.11 
Advanced Beneficiary Notice (ABN): 
Physicians, physical therapists, occupational therapists, 
outpatient rehabilitation facilities (ORFs), comprehensive 
outpatient rehabilitation facilities (CORFs), home health 
agencies (HHA), and hospital outpatient departments are liable 
if the service is performed, unless the beneficiary signs an ABN. 
Similarly, DME suppliers and HHA are liable for the devices 
when they are supplied, unless the beneficiary signs an ABN. 
100-4, Chapter-5, 100.4
Outpatient Mental Health Treatment Limitation 
The Outpatient Mental Health Treatment Limitation (the 
limitation) is not applicable to CORF services because CORFs 
do not provide services to treat mental, psychoneurotic and 
personality disorders that are subject to the limitation in section 
1833(c) of the Act. For dates of service on or after October 
1, 2012, HCPCS code G0409 is the only code allowed for 
social work and psychological services furnished in a CORF. 
This service is not subject to the limitation because it is not a 
psychiatric mental health treatment service. 
For additional information on the limitation, see Publication 
100-01, Chapter 3, section 30 and Publication 100-02, Chapter
12, sections 50-50.5.
100-4, Chapter-8, 60.2.1.1
Separately Billable ESRD Drugs 
Effective January 1, 2011, section 153b of the MIPPA requires 
that all drugs and biologicals that are used in the treatment 
of ESRD be provided and billed by the ESRD facility. When a 
drug or biological is billed by providers other than the ESRD 
facility and the drug or biological furnished is designated 
as a drug or biological that is included in the ESRD PPS ( 
renal dialysis service), the claim will be rejected or denied. 
In the event that a drug or biological generally used in the 
treatment of ESRD was furnished to an ESRD beneficiary for 
reasons other than for the treatment of ESRD, the provider 
may report the drug on the claim with modifier AV and receive 
separate payment. For claims with dates of service on or after 
July 1, 2013, when these drugs are administered through 
the dialysate the provider must append the modifier JE 
(Administered via Dialysate). 
All drugs reported on the renal dialysis facility claim are 
considered included in the ESRD PPS, unless they are 
covered by an exception as discussed below. The list of drugs 
and biologicals for consolidated billing are designated as 
always ESRD-related and therefore no separate payment is 
made to ESRD facilities. However, CMS has determined that 
some of these drugs warrant separate payment when they are 
used to treat conditions other than ESRD. 
Exceptions to "Always ESRD Related" Drugs: 
The following drugs have been approved for separate 
payment consideration when billed with the AV modifier 
attesting to the drug not being used for the treatment 
of ESRD. The ESRD facility is required to indicate (in 
accordance with ICD coding guidelines) the diagnosis 
code for which the drug is indicated. 
693 
•
Vancomycin, effective January 1, 2012 
Daptomycin, effective January 1, 2013 
Items and services subject to the consolidated billing 
requirements for the ESRD 
PPS can be found on the CMS website at: 
http://www.cms.gov/ES RD PaymenU50 _Consolidated_ 
Billing.asp#TopOfPage 
Other drugs and biologicals are separately payable to the 
dialysis facility if the drug was not used for the treatment of 
ESRD. The facility must include the modifier AY to indicate it 
was not for the treatment of ESRD. 
Drugs are assigned HCPCS codes. If no HCPCS code is listed 
for a drug (e.g., a new drug) the facility bills using HCPCS 
code J3490, "Unclassified Drugs," and submits documentation 
identifying the drug. To establish a code for the drug, the A/B 
MAC (A) checks HCPCS to verify that there is no acceptable 
HCPCS code for billing and if a code is not found checks 
with the local A/B MAC (B), which may have a code and price 
that is appropriate. If no code is found the drug is processed 
under HCPCS code J3490. See Chapter 17 for a complete 
description of drug pricing. 
100-4, Chapter-8, 60.4
Erythropoietin Stimulating Agents (ESAs) 
Coverage rules for ESAs are explained in the Medicare Benefit 
Policy Manual, Publication 100-02, Chapter 11. 
ESAs and their administration supplies and staff are included 
in the payment for the ESRD PPS effective January 1, 2011. 
Providers must continue to report ESAs on the claim. ESAs 
are eligible for outlier payment consideration. The Medicare 
allowed payment (MAP) amounts for the outlier policy include 
the ESA rate provided on the Average Sale Price (ASP) list. 
100-4, Chapter-8, 60.4. 1 .
ESA Claims Monitoring Policy 
Effective for services provided on or after April 1, 2006, 
Medicare has implemented a national claims monitoring policy 
for ESAs administered in Medicare renal dialysis facilities. 
This policy does not apply to claims for ESAs for patients who 
receive their dialysis at home and self-administer their ESA. 
While Medicare is not changing its coverage policy on 
erythropoietin use to maintain a target hematocrit level 
between 30% and 36%, we believe the variability in response 
to ESAs warrants postponing requiring monitoring until the 
hematocrit reaches higher levels. For dates of services April 1, 
2006, and later, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
(CMS) claims monitoring policy applies when the hematocrit 
level exceeds 39.0% or the hemoglobin level exceeds 13.0g/ 
dl. This does not preclude the contractors from performing 
medical review at lower levels. 
Effective for services provided on or after April 1, 2006, for 
claims reporting hematocrit or hemoglobin levels exceeding 
the monitoring threshold, the dose shall be reduced by 25% 
over the preceding month. Providers may report that a dose 
reduction did occur in response to the reported elevated 
hematocrit or hemoglobin level by adding a GS modifier on the 
claim. The definition of the GS modifier is defined as: "Dosage 
of ESA has been reduced and maintained in response to 
hematocrit or hemoglobin level." Thus, for claims reporting a 
hematocrit level or hemoglobin level exceeding the monitoring 
threshold without the GS modifier, CMS will reduce the 
694 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
covered dosage reported on the claim by 25%. The excess 
dosage is considered to be not reasonable and necessary. 
Providers are reminded that the patient's medical records 
should reflect hematocriUhemoglobin levels and any dosage
reduction reported on the claim during the same time period
for which the claim is submitted. 
Effective for dates of service provided on and after January 
1, 2008, requests for payments or claims for ESAs for ESRD 
patients receiving dialysis in renal dialysis facilities reporting a 
hematocrit level exceeding 39.0% (or hemoglobin exceeding 
13.0g/dl) shall also include modifier ED or EE. Claims 
reporting neither modifier or both modifiers will be returned to 
the provider for correction. 
The definition of modifier ED is "The hematocrit level has 
exceeded 39.0% (or hemoglobin level has exceeded 13.0g/dl) 
3 or more consecutive billing cycles immediately prior to and 
including the current billing cycle." The definition of modifier EE 
is "The hematocrit level has exceeded 39.0% (or hemoglobin 
level has exceeded 13.0g/dl) less than 3 consecutive billing 
cycles immediately prior to and including the current billing 
cycle." The GS modifier continues to be defined as stated 
above. 
Providers may continue to report the GS modifier when 
the reported hematocrit or hemoglobin levels exceed the 
monitoring threshold for less than 3 months and a dose 
reduction has occurred. When both modifiers GS and EE 
are included, no reduction in the covered dose will occur. 
Claims reporting a hematocrit or hemoglobin level exceeding 
the monitoring threshold and the ED modifier shall have an 
automatic 50% reduction in the covered dose applied. even if 
the claim also reports the GS modifier. 
Below is a chart illustrating the resultant claim actions under all 
possible reporting scenarios: 
Hct 
ED 
EE 
GS Modifier? 
Claim Action 
Exceeds 
Modifier? 
Modifier? 
(Dosage 
39.0% 
(Hct >39% 
(Hct >39% 
reduced and 
orHgb 
orHgb 
or Hgb 
maintained) 
Exceeds 
>13g/dl 2!3 
>13gldl <3 
13.0gldl 
cycles) 
cycles) 
No 
NIA 
IN/A 
N/A 
Do not reduce 
I 
reported dose. 
Yes 
No 
I No 
No 
Return to 
provider for 
i 
I correction. Claim 
must report 
I 
either modifier 
ED or EE. 
Yes 
No 
I No 
Yes 
Return to 
I 
provider for 
I 
correction. Claim 
must report 
either modifier 
ED or EE. 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
Do not reduce 
I
I 
reported dose. 
I 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Reduce reported 
dose 25%. 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
Reduce reported 
dose 50%. 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
Reduce reported 
dose 50%. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
In some cases, physicians may believe there is medical 
justification to maintain a hematocrit above 39.0% or 
hemoglobin above 13.0g/dL. Beneficiaries, physicians, and/or 
renal facilities may submit additional medical documentation 
to justify this belief under the routine appeal process. You may 
reinstate any covered dosage reduction amounts under this 
first level appeal process when you believe the documentation 
supports a higher hematocriUhemoglobin level. 
Providers are reminded that, in accordance with FDA labeling, 
CMS expects that as the hematocrit approaches 36.0% 
(hemoglobin 12.0g/dL), a dosage reduction occurs. Providers 
are expected to maintain hematocrit levels between 30.0 to 
36.0% (hemoglobin 10.0-12.0g/dL). Hematocrit levels that 
remain below 30.0% (hemoglobin levels below 10.0g/dL)) 
despite dosage increases, should have causative factors 
evaluated. The patient's medical record should reflect the 
clinical reason for dose changes and hematocrit levels outside 
the range of 30.0-36.0% (hemoglobin levels 10.0-12.0g/dL). 
Medicare contractors may review medical records to assure 
appropriate dose reductions are applied and maintained and 
hematological target ranges are maintained. 
These hematocrit requirements apply only to ESAs furnished 
as an ESRD benefit under §1881 (b) of the Social Security Act. 
Effective January 1, 2020, the EMP is discontinued under 
the ESRD PPS. Prescribing practitioners should continue to 
prescribe ESAs in accordance with ESA dosing guidelines and 
ESRD facilities should continue to report what they furnish. 
The type of bill 72X will no longer be subject to dose 
reductions or ESA dose limitations. 
ESRD facilities are not required to report the following 
modifiers: 
1. GS - Dosage of erythropoietin stimulating agent has been 
reduced and maintained in response to hematocrit or 
hemoglobin level 
2. ED - Hematocrit level has exceeded 39% (or hemoglobin 
level has exceeded 13.0 g/dl) for 3 or more consecutive 
billing cycles immediately prior to and including the 
current cycle
3. EE - Hematocrit level has not exceeded 39% (or 
hemoglobin level has not exceeded 13.0 g/dl) for 3 or 
more consecutive billing cycles immediately prior to and 
including the current cycle 
Medically Unlikely Edits (MUE) 
For dates of service on and after January 1, 2008, the MUE 
for claims billing for Epogen® is reduced to 400,000 units from 
500,000. The MUE for claims for Aranesp® is reduced to 1200 
mcg from 1500 mcg. 
It is likely that claims reporting doses exceeding the threshold 
reflect typographical errors and will be returned to providers for 
correction. 
Effective January 1, 2020 the medically unlikely edits for ESAs 
exceeding the threshold limits above are discontinued under 
the ESRD PPS. 
100-4, Chapter-8, 60.4.6.3
Payment Amount for Darbepoetin Alfa (Aranesp) 
Payment for ESRD-related Aranesp is included in the ESRD 
PPS for claims with dates of service on or after January 1, 
2011. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-4, Chapter-8, 60.6
Vaccines Furnished to ESRD Patients 
The Medicare program covers Hepatitis B, influenza virus 
and Pneumococcal pneumonia virus (PPV) vaccines and 
their administration when furnished to eligible beneficiaries in 
accordance with coverage rules. Payment may be made for 
both the vaccine and the administration. The costs associated 
with the syringe and supplies are included in the administration 
fee: HCPCS code A4657 should not be billed for these 
vaccines. 
Vaccines and their administration are reported using separate 
codes. See Chapter 18 of this manual for the payment and 
codes required for billing vaccines and the administration of 
the vaccine. 
Vaccines remain separately payable under the ESRD PPS. 
100-4, Chapter-11, 40.1.3.1
Care Plan Oversight 
Care plan oversight (CPO) exists where there is physician 
supervision of patients under care of hospices that require 
complex and multidisciplinary care modalities involving regular 
physician development and/or revision of care plans. Implicit in 
the concept of CPO is the expectation that the physician has 
coordinated an aspect of the patient's care with the hospice 
during the month for which CPO services were billed. 
For a physician or NP employed by or under arrangement with 
a hospice agency, CPO functions are incorporated and are 
part of the hospice per diem payment and as such may not be 
separately billed. 
For information on separately billable CPO services by 
the attending physician, or nurse practitioner, or physician 
assistant see Chapter 12, § 180 of this manual. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 30.4
Cardiovascular System (Codes 92950-93799) 
A. Echocardiography Contrast Agents
Effective October 1, 2000, physicians may separately bill for 
contrast agents used in echocardiography. Physicians should 
use HCPCS Code A9700 (Supply of Injectable Contrast 
Material for Use in Echocardiography, per study). The type of 
service code is 9. This code will be A/B MAC (B) priced. 
B. Electronic Analyses of Implantable Cardioverter­
defibrillators and Pacemakers
The CPT® codes 93731, 93734, 93741 and 93743 are used 
to report electronic analyses of single or dual chamber 
pacemakers and single or dual chamber implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillators. In the office, a physician uses a 
device called a programmer to obtain information about the 
status and performance of the device and to evaluate the 
patient's cardiac rhythm and response to the implanted device. 
Advances in information technology now enable physicians 
to evaluate patients with implanted cardiac devices without 
requiring the patient to be present in the physician's office. 
Using a manufacturer's specific monitor/transmitter, a patient 
can send complete device data and specific cardiac data 
to a distant receiving station or secure Internet server. The 
electronic analysis of cardiac device data that is remotely 
obtained provides immediate and long-term data on the device 
and clinical data on the patient's cardiac functioning equivalent 
to that obtained during an in-office evaluation. Physicians 
695 
should report the electronic analysis of an implanted cardiac 
device using remotely obtained data as described above with 
CPT® code 93731, 93734, 93741 or 93743, depending on the 
type of cardiac device implanted in the patient. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 30.6.15.4
Power Mobility Devices (PMDs) (Code G0372) 
Section 302(a)(2)(E)(iv) of the Medicare Prescription Drug, 
Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) sets forth 
revised conditions for Medicare payment of Power Mobility 
Devices (PMDs). This section of the MMA states that payment 
for motorized or power wheelchairs may not be made unless 
a physician (as defined in §1861 (r)(1) of the Act), a physician 
assistant, nurse practitioner, or a clinical nurse specialist 
(as those terms are defined in §1861(aa)(5)) has conducted 
a face-to-face examination of the beneficiary and written a 
prescription for the PMD. 
Payment for the history and physical examination will be made 
through the appropriate evaluation and management (E&M) 
code corresponding to the history and physical examination 
of the patient. Due to the MMA requirement that the physician 
or treating practitioner create a written prescription and 
a regulatory requirement that the physician or treating 
practitioner prepare pertinent parts of the medical record for 
submission to the durable medical equipment supplier, code 
G0372 (physician service required to establish and document 
the need for a power mobility device )has been established to 
recognize additional physician services and resources required 
to establish and document the need for the PMD. 
The G code indicates that all of the information necessary 
to document the PMD prescription is included in the medical 
record, and the prescription and supporting documentation is 
delivered to the PMD supplier within 30 days after the face-to­
face examination. 
Effective October 25, 2005, G0372 will be used to recognize 
additional physician services and resources required to 
establish and document the need for the PMD and will be 
added to the Medicare physician fee schedule. 
100-4, Chapter-12,80.1
Coverage of Physicians' Services Provided in 
Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facility 
B3-2220 
Rehabilitation services furnished by comprehensive outpatient 
rehabilitation facilities (CORFs) are covered by Medicare Part B. 
Under§ 1832(a)(2)(E}, §1861 (cc)(2), (go to http://www.ssa.gov/ 
OP _Home/ssact/title18/1800.htm and select the applicable 
title) and related provisions of the Act, a CORF is recognized 
as a provider of services on the basis of its reasonable costs. 
Except for diagnostic and therapeutic services provided by 
physicians to individual patients, payment is made to the CORF 
by intermediaries (acting in the role of the A/B MAC (B).) 
Physicians' diagnostic and therapeutic services furnished to a 
CORF patient are not considered CORF physician's services. 
Instead they are services that the physician must bill to the Part 
B carrier. If covered services, payment is made according to the 
Medicare Physician Fee Schedule. When physician's diagnostic 
and therapeutic services are furnished in a CORF, the claim 
must be annotated to show the CORF as the place of treatment. 
Services considered administrative services provided by the 
physician associated with the CORF are considered CORF 
696 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
services reimbursable to the CORF by the Fl. Administrative 
services include consultation with and medical supervision 
of nonphysician staff, establishing and reviewing the plan of 
treatment, and other medical and facility administration activities. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 100.1.1
Evaluation and Management (E/M) Services 
A. General Documentation Requirements
Evaluation and Management (E/M) Services -- For a given 
encounter, the selection of the appropriate level of E/M service 
should be determined according to the code definitions in 
the American Medical Association's Current Procedural 
Terminology (CPT®) book and any applicable documentation 
guidelines. 
For purposes of payment, E/M services billed by teaching 
physicians require that the medical records must demonstrate: 
That the teaching physician performed the service or was 
physically present during the key or critical portions of the 
service when performed by the resident; and 
•
The participation of the teaching physician in the
management of the patient.
The presence of the teaching physician during E/M services 
may be demonstrated by the notes in the medical records 
made by physicians, residents, or nurses. 
B. EIM Service Documentation Provided By Students
Any contribution and participation of students to the 
performance of a billable service (other than the review 
of systems and/or past family/social history which are not 
separately billable, but are taken as part of an E/M service) 
must be performed in the physical presence of a teaching 
physician or physical presence of a resident in a service 
meeting the requirements set forth in this section for teaching 
physician billing. 
Students may document services in the medical record. 
However, the teaching physician must verify in the medical 
record all student documentation or findings, including history, 
physical exam and/or medical decision making. The teaching 
physician must personally perform (or re-perform) the physical 
exam and medical decision making activities of the E/M service 
being billed, but may verify any student documentation of them 
in the medical record, rather than re-documenting this work. 
C. Exception for EIM Services Furnished in Certain
Primary Care Centers
Teaching physicians providing E/M services with a GME 
program granted a primary care exception may bill Medicare 
for lower and mid-level E/M services provided by residents. 
Effective January 1, 2022, teaching physicians may use only 
medical decision making (MOM) for purposes of E/M visit 
level selection when billing the Medicare program under the 
physician fee schedule for office/outpatient E/M visits under 
this primary care exception. For the E/M codes listed below, 
teaching physicians may submit claims for services furnished 
by residents in the absence of a teaching physician: 
New Patient 
Established Patient 
99201 
99211 
99202 
99212 
99203 
99213 
Effective January 1, 2005, the following code is included 
under the primary care exception: HCPCS code G0402 (Initial 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
preventive physical examination; face-to-face visit services 
limited to new beneficiary during the first 12 months of 
Medicare enrollment). 
Effective January 1, 2011, the following codes are included 
under the primary care exception: HCPCS codes G0438 
(Annual wellness visit, including personal preventive plan 
service, first visit) and G0439 (Annual wellness visit, including 
personal preventive plan service, subsequent visit). 
If a service other than those listed above needs to be furnished, 
then the general teaching physician policy set forth in § 100.1 
applies. For this exception to apply, a center must attest in 
writing that all the following conditions are met for a particular 
residency program. Prior approval is not necessary, but centers 
exercising the primary care exception must maintain records 
demonstrating that they qualify for the exception. 
The services must be furnished in a center located in the 
outpatient department of a hospital or another ambulatory 
care entity in which the time spent by residents in patient care 
activities is included in determining direct GME payments 
to a teaching hospital by the hospital's A/8 MAC (A). This 
requirement is not met when the resident is assigned to a 
physician's office away from the center or makes home visits. 
In the case of a non hospital entity, verify with the A/8 MAC (A) 
that the entity meets the requirements of a written agreement 
between the hospital and the entity set forth at 42 CFR 
413.78(e)(3)(ii). 
Under this exception, residents providing the billable patient 
care service without the physical presence of a teaching 
physician must have completed at least 6 months of a 
GME approved residency program. Centers must maintain 
information under the provisions at 42 CFR 413.79(a)(6). 
Teaching physicians submitting claims under this exception 
may not supervise more than four residents at any given 
time and must direct the care from such proximity as to 
constitute immediate availability. Teaching physicians may 
include residents with less than 6 months in a GME approved 
residency program in the mix of four residents under the 
teaching physician's supervision. However, the teaching 
physician must be physically present for the critical or key 
portions of services furnished by the residents with less than 
6 months in a GME approved residency program. That is, the 
primary care exception does not apply in the case of residents 
with less than 6 months in a GME approved residency 
program. 
Teaching physicians submitting claims under this exception 
must: 
Not have other responsibilities (including the supervision 
of other personnel) at the time the service was provided 
by the residents; 
Have the primary medical responsibility for patients cared 
for by the residents; 
Ensure that the care provided was reasonable and 
necessary; 
Review the care provided by the residents during or 
immediately after each visit. This must include a review 
of the patient's medical history, the resident's findings 
on physical examination, the patient's diagnosis, and 
treatment plan (i.e., record of tests and therapies); and 
Patients under this exception should consider the center to be 
their primary location for health care services. The residents 
must be expected to generally provide care to the same group 
of established patients during their residency training. The types 
of services furnished by residents under this exception include: 
cp-,. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
•
Acute care for undifferentiated problems or chronic care
for ongoing conditions including chronic mental illness;
•
Coordination of care furnished by other physicians and
providers; and,
•
Comprehensive care not limited by organ system or
diagnosis.
Residency programs most likely qualifying for this exception 
include family practice, general internal medicine, geriatric 
medicine, pediatrics, and obstetrics/gynecology. 
Certain GME programs in psychiatry may qualify in special 
situations such as when the program furnishes comprehensive 
care for chronically mentally ill patients. These would be 
centers in which the range of services the residents are trained 
to furnish, and actually do furnish, include comprehensive 
medical care as well as psychiatric care. For example, 
antibiotics are being prescribed as well as psychotropic drugs. 
The patient medical record must document the extent of the 
teaching physician's participation in the review and direction of the 
services furnished to each beneficiary. The extent of the teaching 
physician's participation may be demonstrated by the notes in the 
medical records made by physicians, residents, or nurses. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 180
Care Plan Oversight Services 
The Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 15, contains 
requirements for coverage for medical and other health services 
including those of physicians and non-physician practitioners. 
Care plan oversight (CPO)is the physician supervision of a 
patient receiving complex and/or multidisciplinary care as part 
of Medicare-covered services provided by a participating home 
health agency or Medicare approved hospice. CPO services 
require complex or multidisciplinary care modalities involving: 
Regular physician development and/or revision of care 
plans; 
Review of subsequent reports of patient status; 
Review of related laboratory and other studies; 
•
Communication with other health professionals not
employed in the same practice who are involved in the
patient's care;
Integration of new information into the medical treatment
plan; and/or
•
Adjustment of medical therapy.
The CPO services require recurrent physician supervision of 
a patient involving 30 or more minutes of the physician's time 
per month. Services not countable toward the 30 minutes 
threshold that must be provided in order to bill for CPO include, 
but are not limited to: 
Time associated with discussions with the patient, his or 
her family or friends to adjust medication or treatment; 
Time spent by staff getting or filing charts; 
•
Travel time; and/or
Physician's time spent telephoning prescriptions into the
pharmacist unless the telephone conversation involves
discussions of pharmaceutical therapies.
Implicit in the concept of CPO is the expectation that the 
physician has coordinated an aspect of the patient's care with 
the home health agency or hospice during the month for which 
CPO services were billed. The physician who bills for CPO 
must be the same physician who signs the plan of care. 
Nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and clinical nurse 
specialists, practicing within the scope of State law, may bill for 
697 
care plan oversight. These non-physician practitioners must 
have been providing ongoing care for the beneficiary through 
evaluation and management services. These non-physician 
practitioners may not bill for CPO if they have been involved 
only with the delivery of the Medicare-covered home health or 
hospice service. 
A. Home Health CPO
Non-physician practitioners can perform CPO only if the 
physician signing the plan of care provides regular ongoing 
care under the same plan of care as does the NPP billing for 
CPO and either: 
•
The physician and NPP are part of the same group 
practice; or 
If the NPP is a nurse practitioner or clinical nurse 
specialist, the physician signing the plan of care also has 
a collaborative agreement with the NPP; or 
If the NPP is a physician assistant, the physician signing
the plan of care is also the physician who provides 
general supervision of physician assistant services for
the practice. 
Billing may be made for care plan oversight services furnished 
by an NPP when: 
The NPP providing the care plan oversight has seen and 
examined the patient; 
The NPP providing care plan oversight is not functioning 
as a consultant whose participation is limited to a 
single medical condition rather than multidisciplinary 
coordination of care; and 
•
The NPP providing care plan oversight integrates his or 
her care with that of the physician who signed the plan 
of care. NPPs may not certify the beneficiary for home 
health care. 
NPPs may not certify the beneficiary for home health care. 
B. Hospice CPO
The attending physician or nurse practitioner (who has been 
designated as the attending physician) may bill for hospice 
CPO when they are acting as an "attending physician". An 
"attending physician" is one who has been identified by the 
individual, at the time he/she elects hospice coverage, as 
having the most significant role in the determination and 
delivery of their medical care. They are not employed nor paid 
by the hospice. The care plan oversight services are billed 
using Form CMS-1500 or electronic equivalent. For additional 
information on hospice CPO, see Chapter 11, §40.1.3.1 of this 
manual. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 180.1
Care Plan Oversight Billing Requirements 
A. Codes for Which Separate Payment May Be Made
Effective January 1, 1995, separate payment may be made 
for CPO oversight services for 30 minutes or more if the 
requirements specified in the Medicare Benefits Policy Manual, 
Chapter 15 are met. 
Providers billing for CPO must submit the claim with no other 
services billed on that claim and may bill only after the end 
of the month in which the CPO services were rendered. CPO 
services may not be billed across calendar months and should 
be submitted (and paid) only for one unit of service. 
698 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Physicians may bill and be paid separately for CPO services 
only if all the criteria in the Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, 
Chapter 15 are met. 
B. Physician Certification and Recertification of Home
Health Plans of Care
Effective 2001, two new HCPCS codes for the certification and 
recertification and development of plans of care for Medicare­
covered home health services were created. 
See the Medicare General Information, Eligibility, and 
Entitlement Manual, Pub. 100-01, Chapter 4, "Physician 
Certification and Recertification of Services," §10-60, and 
the Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Pub. 100-02, Chapter 7, 
"Home Health Services", §30. 
The home health agency certification code can be billed only 
when the patient has not received Medicare-covered home 
health services for at least 60 days. The home health agency 
recertification code is used after a patient has received 
services for at least 60 days (or one certification period) when 
the physician signs the certification after the initial certification 
period. The home health agency recertification code will be 
reported only once every 60 days, except in the rare situation 
when the patient starts a new episode before 60 days elapses 
and requires a new plan of care to start a new episode. 
C. Provider Number of Home Health Agency (HHA) or
Hospice
For claims for CPO submitted on or after January 1, 1997, 
physicians must enter on the Medicare claim form the 
6-character Medicare provider number of the HHA or hospice
providing Medicare-covered services to the beneficiary for
the period during which CPO services was furnished and
for which the physician signed the plan of care. Physicians
are responsible for obtaining the HHA or hospice Medicare
provider numbers.
Additionally, physicians should provide their UPIN to the HHA 
or hospice furnishing services to their patient. 
NOTE: There is currently no place on the HIPAA standard ASC 
X12N 837 professional format to specifically include the HHA 
or hospice provider number required for a care plan oversight 
claim. For this reason, the requirement to include the HHA 
or hospice provider number on a care plan oversight claim 
is temporarily waived until a new version of this electronic 
standard format is adopted under HIPAA and includes a place 
to provide the HHA and hospice provider numbers for care 
plan oversight claims. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3
List of Medicare Telehealth Services 
The use of a telecommunications system may substitute for 
an in-person encounter for professional consultations, office 
visits, office psychiatry services, and a limited number of other 
physician fee schedule (PFS) services. The various services 
and corresponding current procedure terminology (CPT®) or 
Healthcare_Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) 
codes are listed on the CMS website at www.cms.gov/ 
Medicare/Medicare-General-lnformation/Telehealth/. 
NOTE: Beginning January 1, 2010, CMS eliminated the 
use of all consultation codes, except for inpatient telehealth 
consultation G-codes. CMS no longer recognizes office/ 
outpatient or inpatient consultation CPT® codes for payment 
of office/outpatient or inpatient visits. Instead, physicians and 
practitioners are instructed to bill a new or established patient 
office/outpatient visit CPT® code or appropriate hospital or 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
nursing facility care code, as appropriate to the particular 
patient, for all office/outpatient or inpatient visits. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.1
Telehealth Consultation Services, Emergency 
Department or Initial Inpatient versus Inpatient 
Evaluation and Management (E/M) Visits 
A consultation service is an evaluation and management (E/M) 
service furnished to evaluate and possibly treat a patient's 
problem(s). It can involve an opinion, advice, recommendation, 
suggestion, direction, or counsel from a physician or qualified 
nonphysician practitioner (NPP) at the request of another 
physician or appropriate source. 
Section 1834(m) of the Social Security Act includes 
"professional consultations" in the definition of telehealth 
services. Inpatient or emergency department consultations 
furnished via telehealth can facilitate the provision of certain 
services and/or medical expertise that might not otherwise be 
available to a patient located at an originating site. 
The use of a telecommunications system may substitute for an 
in-person encounter for emergency department or initial and 
follow-up inpatient consultations. 
Medicare A/B MACs (B) pay for reasonable and medically 
necessary inpatient or emergency department telehealth 
consultation services furnished to beneficiaries in hospitals 
or SNFs when all of the following criteria for the use of a 
consultation code are met: 
•
An inpatient or emergency department consultation
service is distinguished from other inpatient or
emergency department evaluation and management
(E/M) visits because it is provided by a physician or 
qualified nonphysician practitioner (NPP) whose opinion
or advice regarding evaluation and/or management of
a specific problem is requested by another physician or 
other appropriate source. The qualified NPP may perform
consultation services within the scope of practice and 
licensure requirements for NPPs in the State in which he/ 
she practices;
•
A request for an inpatient or emergency department
telehealth consultation from an appropriate source and
the need for an inpatient or emergency department
telehealth consultation (i.e., the reason for a consultation
service) shall be documented by the consultant in the
patient's medical record and included in the requesting
physician or qualified NPP's plan of care in the patient's
medical record; and
After the inpatient or emergency department telehealth
consultation is provided, the consultant shall prepare a
written report of his/her findings and recommendations,
which shall be provided to the referring physician.
The intent of an inpatient or emergency department telehealth 
consultation service is that a physician or qualified NPP 
or other appropriate source is asking another physician 
or qualified NPP for advice, opinion, a recommendation, 
suggestion, direction, or counsel, etc. in evaluating or treating 
a patient because that individual has expertise in a specific 
medical area beyond the requesting professional's knowledge. 
Unlike inpatient or emergency department telehealth 
consultations, the majority of subsequent inpatient hospital, 
emergency department and nursing facility care services 
require in-person visits to facilitate the comprehensive, 
coordinated, and personal care that medically volatile, acutely 
ill patients require on an ongoing basis. 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rig hrs reserved. 
Subsequent hospital care services are limited to one telehealth 
visit every 3 days. Subsequent nursing facility care services 
are limited to one telehealth visit every 30 days. 
Beginning with dates of service on and after January 1, 2021, 
the limit for nursing facility care services is one telehealth visit 
every 14 days. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.2
Telehealth Consultation Services, Emergency 
Department or Initial Inpatient Defined 
Emergency department or initial inpatient telehealth 
consultations are furnished to beneficiaries in hospitals or 
SNFs via telehealth at the request of the physician of record, 
the attending physician, or another appropriate source. 
The physician or practitioner who furnishes the emergency 
department or initial inpatient consultation via telehealth 
cannot be the physician of record or the attending physician, 
and the emergency department or initial inpatient telehealth 
consultation would be distinct from the care provided by the 
physician of record or the attending physician. Counseling 
and coordination of care with other providers or agencies is 
included as well, consistent with the nature of the problem(s) 
and the patient's needs. Emergency department or initial 
inpatient telehealth consultations are subject to the criteria 
for emergency department or initial inpatient telehealth 
consultation services, as described in section 190.3.1 of this 
chapter. 
Payment for emergency department or initial inpatient 
telehealth consultations includes all consultation related 
services furnished before, during, and after communicating 
with the patient via telehealth. Pre-service activities would 
include, but would not be limited to, reviewing patient data (for 
example, diagnostic and imaging studies, interim labwork) and 
communicating with other professionals or family members. 
Intra-service activities must include the three key elements 
described below for each procedure code. Post-service 
activities would include, but would not be limited to, completing 
medical records or other documentation and communicating 
results of the consultation and further care plans to other 
health care professionals. No additional E/M service could be 
billed for work related to an emergency department or initial 
inpatient telehealth consultation. 
Emergency department or initial inpatient telehealth 
consultations could be provided at various levels of complexity: 
Practitioners taking a problem focused history, 
conducting a problem focused examination, 
and engaging in medical decision making that is 
straightforward, would bill HCPCS code G0425 
(Telehealth consultation, emergency department or initial 
inpatient, typically 30 minutes communicating with the 
patient via telehealth). 
Practitioners taking a detailed history, conducting a 
detailed examination, and engaging in medical decision 
making that is of moderate complexity, would bill HCPCS 
code G0426 (Telehealth consultation, emergency 
department or initial inpatient, typically 50 minutes 
communicating with the patient via telehealth). 
•
Practitioners taking a comprehensive history, conducting
a comprehensive examination, and engaging in medical
decision making that is of high complexity, would
bill HCPCS code G0427 (Telehealth consultation,
emergency department or initial inpatient, typically
70 minutes or more communicating with the patient via
telehealth}.
699 
Although emergency department or initial inpatient telehealth 
consultations are specific to telehealth, these services must 
be billed with either the -GT or -GQ modifier to identify the 
telehealth technology used to provide the service. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.3
Follow-Up Inpatient Telehealth Consultations 
Defined 
Follow-up inpatient telehealth consultations are furnished to 
beneficiaries in hospitals or SNFs via telehealth to follow-up 
on an initial consultation, or subsequent consultative visits 
requested by the attending physician. The initial inptient 
consultation may have been provided in-person or via 
telehealth. 
Follow-up inpatient telehealth consultations include monitoring 
progress, recommending management modifications, or 
advising on a new plan of care in response to changes In the 
patient's status or no changes on the consulted health issue. 
Counseling and coordination of care with other providers or 
agencies is included as well, consistent with the nature of the 
problem(s) and the patient's needs. 
The physician or practitioner who furnishes the inpatient . 
follow-up consultation via telehealth cannot be the physIcIan 
of record or the attending physician, and the follow-up 
inpatient consultation would be distinct from the follow-up 
care provided by the physician of record or the attending 
physician. If a physician consultant has initiated treatment_at 
an initial consultation and participates thereafter in the patient's 
ongoing care management, such care would not be included 
in the definition of a follow-up inpatient consultation. Follow-
up inpatient telehealth consultations are subject to the criteria 
for inpatient telehealth consultation services, as described in 
section 190.3.1 of this chapter. 
Payment for follow-up inpatient telehealth consultations 
includes all consultation related services furnished before, 
during, and after communicating with the patient via telehealth. 
Pre-service activities would include, but would not be limited 
to, reviewing patient data (for example, diagnostic and 
imaging studies, interim labwork) and communicating with 
other professionals or family members. Intra-service activities 
must include at least two of the three key elements described 
below for each procedure code. Post-service activities would 
include, but would not be limited to, completing medical 
records or other documentation and communicating results 
of the consultation and further care plans to other health care 
professionals. No additional evaluation and management 
service could be billed for work related to a follow-up inpatient 
telehealth consultation. 
Follow-up inpatient telehealth consultations could be provided 
at various levels of complexity: 
700 
Practitioners taking a problem focused interval 
history, conducting a problem focused examination, 
and engaging in medical decision making that is 
straightforward or of low complexity, would bill a limited 
service, using HCPCS code G0406 (Follow-up inpatient 
telehealth consultation, limited, physicians typically 
spend 15 minutes communicating with the patient via 
telehealth). 
Practitioners taking an expanded focused interval history, 
conducting an expanded problem focused examination, 
and engaging in medical decision making that is of 
moderate complexity, would bill an intermediate service 
using HCPCS code G0407(Follow-up inpatient telehealth 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
consultation, intermediate, physicians typically spend 25 
minutes communicating with the patient via telehealth). 
Practitioners taking a detailed interval history, conducting 
a detailed examination, and engaging in medical decision 
making that is of high complexity, would bill a complex 
service, using HCPCS code G0408 (Follow-up inpatient 
telehealth consultation, complex, physicians typically 
spend 35 minutes or more communicating with the 
patient via telehealth ). 
Although follow-up inpatient telehealth consultations are . 
specific to telehealth, these services must be billed with either 
the -GT or -GQ modifier to identify the telehealth technology 
used to provide the service. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.4
Payment for ESRD-Related Services as a 
Telehealth Service 
The ESRD-related services included in the monthly capitation 
payment (MCP) with 2 or 3 visits per month and ESRD-related 
services with 4 or more visits per month may be paid as 
Medicare telehealth services. However, at least 1 visit must 
be furnished face-to-face "hands on" to examine the vascular 
access site by a physician, clinical nurse specialist, nurse 
practitioner, or physician assistant. An interactive audio ad
video telecommunications system may be used for providing 
additional visits required under the 2-to-3 visit MCP and the 
4-or-more visit MCP. The medical record must indicate that at
least one of the visits was furnished face-to-face "hands on"
by a physician, clinical nurse specialist, nurse practitioner, or
physician assistant. 
The MCP physician, for example, the physician or practitioner 
who is responsible for the complete monthly assessment 
of the patient and establishes the patient's plan of care, 
may use other physicians and practitioners to furnish 
ESRD-related visits through an interactive audio and video 
telecommunications system. The non-MCP physician or 
practitioner must have a relationship with the billing physician 
or practitioner such as a partner, employees of the same 
group practice or an employee of the MCP physician, for 
example, the non MCP physician or practitioner is either a 
W-2 employee or 1099 independent contractor. However, the
physician or practitioner who is responsible for the complete
monthly assessment and establishes the ESRD beneficiary's
plan of care should bill for the MCP in any given month. 
Clinical Criteria 
The visit, including a clinical examination of the vascular 
access site, must be conducted face-to-face "hands on" 
by a physician, clinical nurse specialist, nurse practitioner 
or physician's assistant. For additional visits, the physician 
or practitioner at the distant site is required, at a minimum, 
to use an interactive audio and video telecommunications 
system that allows the physician or practitioner to provide 
medical management services for a maintenance dialysis 
beneficiary. For example, an ESRD-related visit conducted 
via telecommunications system must permit the physician 
or practitioner at the distant site to perform an assessment 
of whether the dialysis is working effectively and whether 
the patient is tolerating the procedure well (physiologically 
and psychologically). During this assessment, the physician 
or practitioner at the distant site must be able to determine 
whether alteration in any aspect of the beneficiary's 
prescription is indicated, due to such changes as the estimate 
of the patient's dry weight. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.5
Payment for Subsequent Hospital Care Services 
and Subsequent Nursing Facility Care Services 
as Telehealth Services 
(Rev. 3476, Issued: 03-11-16, Effective: 01-01-15, 
Effective: 04-11-16) 
Subsequent hospital care services are limited to one telehealth 
visit every 3 days. The frequency limit of the benefit is not 
intended to apply to consulting physicians or practitioners, who 
should continue to report initial or follow-up inpatient telehealth 
consultations using the applicable HCPCS G-codes. 
Similarly, subsequent nursing facility care services are limited 
to one telehealth visit every 30 days. Furthermore, subsequent 
nursing facility care services reported for a Federally-mandated 
periodic visit under 42 CFR 483.40(c) may not be furnished 
through telehealth. The frequency limit of the benefit is not 
intended to apply to consulting physicians or practitioners, who 
should continue to report initial or follow-up inpatient telehealth 
consultations using the applicable HCPCS G-codes. 
Inpatient telehealth consultations are furnished to beneficiaries 
in hospitals or skilled nursing facilities via telehealth at the 
request of the physician of record, the attending physician, or 
another appropriate source. The physician or practitioner who 
furnishes the initial inpatient consultation via telehealth cannot 
be the physician or practitioner of record or the attending 
physician or practitioner, and the initial inpatient telehealth 
consultation would be distinct from the care provided by the 
physician or practitioner of record or the attending physician 
or practitioner. Counseling and coordination of care with other 
providers or agencies is included as well, consistent with the 
nature of the problem(s) and the patient's needs. Initial and 
follow-up inpatient telehealth consultations are subject to 
the criteria for inpatient telehealth consultation services, as 
described in section 190.3 of this chapter. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 190.3.6
Payment for Diabetes Self-Management Training 
(DSMT) as a Telehealth Service 
Individual and group DSMT services may be paid as a 
Medicare telehealth service. Before 03-11-2016, this manual 
provision required that 1 hour of the 10 hour DSMT benefit's 
initial training must be furnished in-person to allow for effective 
injection training. Because injection training is not always 
clinically indicated, we are revising this provision to permit all 
1 O hours of the initial training and the two (2) hours of annual 
follow-up training to be furnished via telehealth in those 
cases when injection training is not applicable. The in-person 
injection training, when provided, may be furnished through 
either individual or group DSMT services. By reporting place 
of service (POS) 02 or the - GT or -GQ modifier with HCPCS 
code G0108 (Diabetes outpatient self-management training 
services, individual, per 30 minutes) or G0109 (Diabetes 
outpatient self-management training services, group session 
(2 or more), per 30 minutes), the distant site practitioner attests 
that the beneficiary has received or will receive 1 hour of in­
person DSMT services for purposes of injection training when 
it is indicated during the year following the initial DSMT service 
or any calendar year's 2 hours of follow-up training. 
As specified in 42 CFR 410.141 (e) and stated in Pub. 100-02, 
Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, chapter 15, section 300.2, 
individual and group DSMT services may be furnished by 
a physician, other individual, or entity that furnishes other 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
items or services for which direct Medicare payment may be 
made and that submits necessary documentation to, and is 
accredited by a national accreditation organization approved 
by CMS. However, consistent with the statutory requirements 
of section 1834(m)(1) of the Act, as provided in 42 CFR 
410.78(b)(1) and (b)(2) and stated in section 190.6 of this 
chapter, Medicare telehealth services, including individual and 
group DSMT services furnished as a telehealth service, could 
only be furnished by a physician, PA, NP, CNS, CNM , clinical 
psychologist, clinical social worker, or registered dietitian or 
nutrition professional, as applicable. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 210
Outpatient Mental Health Treatment Limitation 
Regardless of the actual expenses a beneficiary incurs in 
connection with the treatment of mental, psychoneurotic, and 
personality disorders while the beneficiary is not an inpatient 
of a hospital at the time such expenses are incurred, the 
amount of those expenses that may be recognized for Part B 
deductible and payment purposes is limited to 62.5 percent 
of the Medicare approved amount for those services. This 
limitation is called the outpatient mental health treatment 
limitation (the limitation). The 62.5 percent limitation has been 
in place since the inception of the Medicare Part B program 
and it will remain effective at this percentage amount until 
January 1, 2010. However, effective January 1, 2010, through 
January 1, 2014, the limitation will be phased out as follows: 
•
January 1, 2010 -December 31, 2011, the limitation
percentage is 68.75%.
(Medicare pays 55% and the patient pays 45%).
January 1, 2012 -December 31, 2012, the limitation
percentage is 75%.
(Medicare pays 60% and the patient pays 40%).
•
January 1, 2013 -December 31, 2013, the limitation
percentage is 81.25%.
(Medicare pays 65% and the patient pays 35%).
January 1, 2014 -onward, the limitation percentage is
100%.
(Medicare pays 80% and the patient pays 20%).
For additional details concerning computation of the limitation, 
please see the examples under section 210.1 E. 
100-4, Chapter-12, 210.1
Apf'lication of the Limitation 
A. Status of Patient
The limitation is applicable to expenses incurred in connection 
with the treatment of an individual who is not an inpatient of a 
hospital. Thus, the limitation applies to mental health services 
furnished to a person in a physician's office, in the patient's 
home, in a skilled nursing facility, as an outpatient, and so 
forth. The term "hospital" in this context means an institution, 
which is primarily engaged in providing to inpatients, by or 
under the supervision of a physician(s): 
Diagnostic and therapeutic services for medical 
diagnosis, treatment and care of injured, disabled, or sick 
persons; 
•
Rehabilitation services for injured, disabled, or sick
persons; or
Psychiatric services for the diagnosis and treatment of
mentally ill patients.
701 
B. Disorders Subject to the Limitation
The term "mental, psychoneurotic, and personality disorders" 
is defined as the specific psychiatric diagnoses described in 
the International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision (ICD-
9), under the code range 290-319. 
When the treatment services rendered are both for a 
psychiatric diagnosis as defined in the ICD-9 and one or more 
nonpsychiatric conditions, separate the expenses for the 
psychiatric aspects of treatment from the expenses for the 
nonpsychiatric aspects of treatment. However, in any case 
in which the psychiatric treatment component is not readily 
distinguishable from the nonpsychiatric treatment component, 
all of the expenses are allocated to whichever component 
constitutes the primary diagnosis. 
1. Diagnosis Clearly Meets Definition -If the primary
diagnosis reported for a particular service is the same 
as or equivalent to a condition described in the ICD-9 
under the code range 290-319 that represents mental, 
psychoneurotic and personality disorders, the expense 
for the service is subject to the limitation except as 
described in subsection D. 
2. Diagnosis Does Not Clearly Meet Definition -When it is 
not clear whether the primary diagnosis reported meets 
the definition of mental, psychoneurotic, and personality 
disorders, it may be necessary to contact the practitioner 
to clarify the diagnosis. In deciding whether contact is
necessary in a given case, give consideration to such 
factors as the type of services rendered, the diagnosis, 
and the individual's previous utilization history. 
C. Services Subject to the Limitation
A/B MACs (B) must apply the limitation to claims for 
professional services that represent mental health treatment 
furnished to individuals who are not hospital inpatients by 
physicians, clinical psychologists, clinical social workers, 
nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists and physician 
assistants. Items and supplies furnished by physicians or other 
mental health practitioners in connection with treatment are 
also subject to the limitation. 
Generally, A/B MACs (B) must apply the limitation only to 
treatment services. However, diagnostic psychological and 
neuropsychological testing services performed to evaluate 
a patient's progress during treatment are considered part of 
treatment and are subject to the limitation. 
D. Services Not Subject to the Limitation
1. Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease or Related Disorder
-When the primary diagnosis reported for a particular
service is Alzheimer's Disease or an Alzheimer's related
disorder, Medicare Contractors must look to the nature 
of the service that has been rendered in determining
whether it is subject to the limitation. Alzheimer's disease 
is coded 331.0 in the "International Classification of
Diseases, 9th Revision", which is outside the code range 
290-319 that represents mental, psychoneurotic and
personality disorders. Additionally, Alzheimer's related 
disorders are identified by contractors under ICD-9 
codes that are within the 290-319 code range (290.XX or
others as contractors determine appropriate) or outside 
the 290-319 code range as determined appropriate by
contractors. When the primary treatment rendered to
702 
a patient with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or a
related disorder is psychotherapy, it is subject to the 
limitation. However, typically, treatment provided to a
patient with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease or a
related disorder represents medical management of the
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
patient's condition (such as described under CPT® code 
90862 or any successor code) and is not subject to the 
limitation. CPT® code 90862 describes pharmacologic 
management, including prescription, use, and review 
of medication with no more than minimal medical 
psychotherapy. 
2. Brief Office Visits for Monitoring or Changing Drug
Prescriptions -Brief office visits for the sole purpose of 
monitoring or changing drug prescriptions used in the 
treatment of mental, psychoneurotic and personality
disorders are not subject to the limitation. These visits are 
reported using HCPCS code M0064 or any successor
code (brief office visit for the sole purpose of monitoring
or changing drug prescriptions used in the treatment
of mental, psychoneurotic, and personality disorders).
Claims where the diagnosis reported is a mental,
psychoneurotic, or personality disorder (other than a
diagnosis specified in subsection A) are subject to the
limitation except for the procedure identified by HCPCS
code M0064 or any successor code.
3.
Diagnostic Services - A/B MACs (B) do not apply the
limitation to psychiatric diagnostic evaluations and 
diagnostic psychological and neuropsychological tests 
performed to establish or confirm the patient's diagnosis. 
Diagnostic services include psychiatric diagnostic
evaluations billed under CPT® codes 90801 or 90802
(or any successor codes) and, psychological and
neuropsychological tests billed under CPT® code range
96101-96118 (or any successor code range).
An initial visit to a practitioner for professional services 
often combines diagnostic evaluation and the start of 
therapy. Such a visit is neither solely diagnostic nor solely 
therapeutic. Therefore, A/B MACs (B) must deem the initial 
visit to be diagnostic so that the limitation does not apply.
Separating diagnostic and therapeutic components of a
visit is not administratively feasible, unless the practitioner 
already has separately identified them on the bill. 
Determining the entire visit to be therapeutic is not 
justifiable since some diagnostic work must be done 
before even a tentative diagnosis can be made and 
certainly before therapy can be instituted. Moreover, the
patient should not be disadvantaged because therapeutic
as well as diagnostic services were provided in the initial
visit. In the rare cases where a practitioner's diagnostic
services take more than one visit, A/B MACs (B) must 
not apply the limitation to the additional visits. However, 
it is expected such cases are few. Therefore, when a
practitioner bills for more than one visit for professional
diagnostic services, A/B MACs (B) may find it necessary
to request documentation to justify the reason for more
than one diagnostic visit.
4. Partial Hospitalization Services Not Directly Provided
by a Physician or a Practitioner - The limitation does
not apply to partial hospitalization services that are not
directly provided by a physician, clinical psychologist,
nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist or a physician
assistant. Partial hospitalization services are billed by
hospital outpatient departments and community mental 
health centers (CMHCs) to A/B MACs (A). However,
services furnished by physicians, clinical psychologists,
nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, and
physician assistants to partial hospitalization patients are
billed separately from the partial hospitalization program 
of services. Accordingly, these professional's mental 
health services to partial hospitalization patients are paid 
under the physician fee schedule by A/B MACs (B) and
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
may be subject to the limitation. (See chapter 4, section 
260.1C). 
E. Computation of Limitation
NB MACs (B) determine the Medicare approved payment 
amount for services subject to the limitation. They: 
Multiply the approved amount by the limitation 
percentage amount; 
•
Subtract any unsatisfied deductible; and, 
•
Multiply the remainder by 0.8 to obtain the amount of
Medicare payment.
The beneficiary is responsible for the difference between the 
amount paid by Medicare and the full Medicare approved 
amount. 
The following examples illustrate the application of the 
limitation in various circumstances as it is gradually reduced 
under section 102 of the Medicare Improvements for Patients 
and Providers Act (MIPPA). Please note that although the 
calendar year 2009 Part B deductible of $135 is used under 
these examples, the actual deductible amount for calendar 
year 2010 and future years is unknown and will be subject to 
change. 
Example #1: In 2010, a clinical psychologist submits a claim 
for $200 for outpatient treatment of a patient's mental disorder. 
The Medicare-approved amount is $180. Since clinical 
psychologists must accept assignment, the patient is not liable 
for the $20 in excess charges. The patient previously satisfied 
the $135 annual Part B deductible. The limitation reduces the 
amount of incurred expenses to 68 ¾ percent of the approved 
amount. Medicare pays 80 percent of the remaining incurred 
expenses. The Medicare payment and patient liability are 
computed as follows: 
1. Actual charges ............................................................................. $200.00 
2. Medicare-approved amount... ...................................................... $180.00 
3. Medicare incurred expenses (0.6875 x line 2 .............................. $123.75 
4. Unmet deductible ......................................................................... $0.00 
5. Remainder after subtracting deductible
(line 3 minus line 4) ..................................................................... $123.75 
6. Medicare payment (0.80 x line 5) ................................................ $99.00 
7. Patient liability (line 2 minus line 6) ............................................. $81.00 
Example #2: In 2012, a clinical social worker submits a claim 
for $135 for outpatient treatment of a patient's mental disorder. 
The Medicare-approved amount is $120. Since clinical social 
workers must accept assignment, the patient is not liable for 
the $15 in excess charges. The limitation reduces the amount 
of incurred expenses to 75 percent of the approved amount. 
The patient previously satisfied $70 of the $135 annual Part 
B deductible, leaving $65 unmet. The Medicare payment and 
patient liability are computed as follows: 
1. Actual charges ............................................................................. $135.00 
2. Medicare-approved amount. ........................................................ $120.00 
3. Medicare incurred expenses (0. 75 x line 2) ................................. $90.00 
4. Unmet deductible ......................................................................... $65.00 
5. Remainder after subtracting deductible
(line 3 minus line 4) ..................................................................... $25.00 
6. Medicare payment (0.80 x line 5) ................................................ $20.00 
7. Patient liability {line 2 minus line 6) ............................................. $100.00 
Example #3: In calendar year 2013, a physician who does 
not accept assignment submits a claim for $780 for services 
in connection with the treatment of a mental disorder that did 
not require inpatient hospitalization. The Medicare-approved 
amount is $750. Because the physician does not accept 
assignment, the patient is liable for the $30 in excess charges. 
The patient has not satisfied any of the $135 Part B annual 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
deductible. The Medicare payment and patient liability are 
computed as follows: 
1. Actual charges ............................................................................. $780.00 
2. Medicare-approved amount.. ....................................................... $750.00 
3. Medicare incurred expenses (0.8125 x line 2) ............................. $609.38 
4. Unmet deductible.... 
. ............................. ....................... $135.00 
5. Remainder after subtracting deductible 
(line 3 minus line 4) ..................................................................... $474.38 
6. Medicare payment (0.80 x line 5) ................................................ $379.50 
7. Patient liability (line 1 minus line 6) ............................................. $400.50 
Example #4: A patient's Part B expenses during calendar year 
2014 are for a physician's services in connection with the 
treatment of a mental disorder that initially required inpatient 
hospitalization, with subsequent physician services furnished 
on an outpatient basis. The patient has not satisfied any of the 
$135 Part B deductible. The physician accepts assignment and 
submits a claim for $780. The Medicare-approved amount is 
$750. Since the limitation will be completely phased out as of 
January 1, 2014, the entire $750 Medicare-approved amount 
is recognized as the total incurred expenses because such 
expenses are no longer reduced. Also, there is no longer any 
distinction between mental health services the patient receives 
as an inpatient or outpatient. The Medicare payment and 
patient liability are computed as follows: 
1. Actual charges ............................................................................. $780.00 
2. Medicare-approved amount.. ....................................................... $750.00 
3. Medicare incurred expenses (1.00 x line 2) ................................. $750.00 
4. Unmet deductible ......................................................................... $135.00 
5. Remainder after subtracting deductible 
(line 3 minus line 4) ..................................................................... $615.00 
6. Medicare payment (0.80 x line 5) ................................................ $492.00 
Beneficiary liability {line 2 minus line 6) ...................................... $258.00 
100-4, Chapter-13, 40
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Procedures 
Effective September 28, 2009 
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) finds 
that the non-coverage of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
for blood flow determination is no longer supported by the 
available evidence. CMS is removing the phrase "blood flow 
measurement" and local Medicare contractors will have the 
discretion to cover ( or not cover). 
Consult Publication (Pub.) 100-03, National Coverage 
Determinations (NCD) Manual, chapter 1, section 220.2, for 
specific coverage and non-coverage indications associated 
with MRI and MRA (Magnetic Resonance Angiography). 
Prior to January 1, 2007 
NB MACs (B) do not make additional payments for three or 
more MRI sequences. The relative value units (RVUs) reflect 
payment levels for two sequences. 
The technical component (TC) RVUs for MRI procedures 
that specify "with contrast" include payment for paramagnetic 
contrast media. Carriers do not make separate payment under 
code A4647. 
A diagnostic technique has been developed under which an 
MRI of the brain or spine is first performed without contrast 
material, then another MRI is performed with a standard 
(0.1 mmol/kg) dose of contrast material and, based on the 
need to achieve a better image, a third MRI is performed 
with an additional double dosage (0.2mmol/kg) of contrast 
material. When the high-dose contrast technique is utilized, 
NB MACs (B): 
703 
Do not pay separately for the contrast material used in 
the second MRI procedure; 
•
Pay for the contrast material given for the third MRI
procedure through supply code Q9952, the replacement
code for A4643, when billed with Current Procedural
Terminology (CPT®) codes 70553, 72156, 72157, and
72158;
•
Do not pay for the third MRI procedure. For example, 
in the case of an MRI of the brain, if CPT® code 70553 
(without contrast material, followed by with contrast 
material(s) and further sequences) is billed, make 
no payment for CPT® code 70551 (without contrast 
material(s)), the additional procedure given for the
purpose of administering the double dosage, furnished
during the same session. Medicare does not pay for
the third procedure (as distinguished from the contrast 
material) because the CPT® definition of code 70553 
includes all further sequences; and 
Do not apply the payment criteria for low osmolar 
contrast media in §30.1.2 to billings for code Q9952, the 
replacement code for A4643. 
Effective January 1, 2007 
With the implementation for calendar year 2007 of a bottom­
up methodology, which utilizes the direct inputs to determine 
the practice expense (PE) relative value units (RVUs), the 
cost of the contrast media is not included in the PE RVUs. 
Therefore, a separate payment for the contrast media used in 
various imaging procedures is paid. In addition to the CPT® 
code representing the imaging procedure, separately bill the 
appropriate HCPCS "Q" code (Q9945 -09954; Q9958-Q9964) 
for the contrast medium utilized in performing the service. 
Effective February 24, 2011 
Medicare will allow for coverage of MRI for beneficiaries with 
implanted PMs or cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) for use in 
an MRI environment in a Medicare-approved clinical study as 
described in section 220.C.1 of the NCO manual. 
Effective July 7, 2011 
Medicare will allow for coverage of MRI for beneficiaries 
with implanted pacemakers (PMs) when the PMs are used 
according to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)­
approved labeling for use in an MRI environment as described 
in section 220.2.C.1 of the NCO Manual. 
100-4, Chapter-13, 40.1.2
HCPCS Coding Requirements 
Providers must report HCPCS codes when submitting claims 
for MRA of the chest, abdomen, head, neck or peripheral 
vessels of lower extremities. The following HCPCS codes 
should be used to report these services: 
MRAof head 
70544, 70544-26, 70544-TC 
MRAof head 
70545, 70545-26, 70545-TC 
MRAof head 
70546, 70546-26, 70546-TC 
MRAof neck 
70547, 70547-26, 70547-TC 
MRAof neck 
70548, 70548-26, 70548-TC 
MRAof neck 
70549, 70549-26, 70549-TC 
MRAof chest 
71555, 71555-26, 71555-TC 
MRA of pelvis 
72198, 72198-26, 72198-TC 
MRAof abdomen 74185, 74185-26, 74185-TC 
(dates of service on or after July 1, 2003)-see below. 
704 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
MRA of peripheral 73725, 73725-26, 73725-TC vessels of 
lower extremities 
Hospitals subject to OPPS should report the following C codes 
in place of the above HCPCS codes as follows: 
MRA of chest 71555: C8909 - C8911 
MRAof abdomen 74185: C8900- C8902 
MRA of peripheral vessels of lower extremities 73725: 
C8912 - C8914 
For claims with dates of service on or after July 1, 2003, 
coverage under this benefit has been expanded for the use 
of MRA for diagnosing pathology in the renal or aortoiliac 
arteries. The following HCPCS code should be used to report 
this expanded coverage of MRA: 
•
MRA, pelvis, with or without contrast material(s) 72198,
72198-26, 72198-TC
Hospitals subject to OPPS report the following C codes in 
place of HCPCS code 72198: 
MRA, pelvis, with or without contrast material(s) 72198: 
C8918 - C8920 
NOTE: Information regarding the claim form locator that 
corresponds to the HCPCS code and a table to crosswalk 
its CMS-1450 form locator to the 837 transaction is found in 
Chapter 25. 
100-4, Chapter-13, 60
Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Scans -
General Information 
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a noninvasive 
imaging procedure that assesses perfusion and the level of 
metabolic activity in various organ systems of the human 
body. A positron camera (tomograph) is used to produce 
cross-sectional tomographic images which are obtained by 
detecting radioactivity from a radioactive tracer substance 
(radiopharmaceutical) that emits a radioactive tracer substance 
(radiopharmaceutical FOG) such as 2 -[F-18] flouro-D-glucose 
FOG, that is administered intravenously to the patient. 
The Medicare National Coverage Determinations (NCO) 
Manual, chapter 1, §220.6, contains additional coverage 
instructions to indicate the conditions under which a PET scan 
is performed. 
A. Definitions
For all uses of PET, excluding Rubidium 82 for perfusion of the 
heart, myocardial viability and refractory seizures, the following 
definitions apply: 
Diagnosis: PET is covered only in clinical situations in 
which the PET results may assist in avoiding an invasive 
diagnostic procedure, or in which the PET results may assist 
in determining the optimal anatomical location to perform 
an invasive diagnostic procedure. In general, for most solid 
tumors, a tissue diagnosis is made prior to the performance 
of PET scanning. PET scans following a tissue diagnosis 
are generally performed for the purpose of staging, rather 
than diagnosis. Therefore, the use of PET in the diagnosis 
of lymphoma, esophageal and colorectal cancers, as well as 
in melanoma, should be rare. PET is not covered for other 
diagnostic uses, and is not covered for screening (testing of 
patients without specific signs and symptoms of disease). 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Staging: PET is covered in clinical situations in which (1) (a) 
the stage of the cancer remains in doubt after completion of a 
standard diagnostic workup, including conventional imaging 
(computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or 
ultrasound) or, (b) the use of PET would also be considered 
reasonable and necessary if it could potentially replace one 
or more conventional imaging studies when it is expected that 
conventional study information is insufficient for the clinical 
management of the patient and, (2) clinical management of 
the patient would differ depending on the stage of the cancer 
identified. 
NOTE: Effective for services on or after April 3, 2009, the 
terms "diagnosis" and "staging" will be replaced with "Initial 
Treatment Strategy." For further information on this new term, 
refer to Pub. 100-03, NCO Manual, section 220.6.17. 
Restaging: PET will be covered for restaging: (1) after the 
completion of treatment for the purpose of detecting residual 
disease, (2) for detecting suspected recurrence, or metastasis, 
(3) to determine the extent of a known recurrence, or (4) if it 
could potentially replace one or more conventional imaging
studies when it is expected that conventional study information
is to determine the extent of a known recurrence, or if study
information is insufficient for the clinical management of the
patient. Restaging applies to testing after a course of treatment
is completed and is covered subject to the conditions above.
Monitoring: Use of PET to monitor tumor response to 
treatment during the planned course of therapy (i.e., when a 
change in therapy is anticipated). 
NOTE: Effective for services on or after April 3, 2009, the 
terms "restaging" and "monitoring" will be replaced with 
"Subsequent Treatment Strategy." For further information on 
this new term, refer to Pub. 100-03, NCO Manual, section 
220.6.17. 
B. Limitations 
For staging and restaging: PET is covered in either/or both of 
the following circumstances: 
The stage of the cancer remains in doubt after 
completion of a standard diagnostic workup, including 
conventional imaging (computed tomography, magnetic 
resonance imaging, or ultrasound); and/or 
•
The clinical management of the patient would differ
depending on the stage of the cancer identified. PET
will be covered for restaging after the completion of 
treatment for the purpose of detecting residual disease, 
for detecting suspected recurrence, or to determine the 
extent of a known recurrence. Use of PET would also 
be considered reasonable and necessary if it could
potentially replace one or more conventional imaging
studies when it is expected that conventional study
information is insufficient for the clinical management of 
the patient. 
The PET is not covered for other diagnostic uses, and is not 
covered for screening (testing of patients without specific 
symptoms). Use of PET to monitor tumor response during the 
planned course of therapy (i.e., when no change in therapy is 
being contemplated) is not covered. 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3
PET Scan Qualifying Conditions and HCPCS 
Code Chart 
Below is a summary of all covered PET scan conditions, with 
effective dates. 
NOTE: The G codes below except those a # can be used to 
bill for PET Scan services through January 27, 2005. Effective 
for dates of service on or after January 28, 2005, providers 
must bill for PET Scan services using the appropriate CPT® 
codes. See section 60.3.1. The G codes with a# can continue 
to be used for billing after January 28, 2005 and these remain 
non-covered by Medicare. (NOTE: PET Scanners must be 
FDA-approved.) 
Conditions 
Coverage 
....HCPCS/ 
Effective 
CPT® 
Date 
*Myocardial perfusion imaging (following 
3/14/95 
G0030 
previous PET G0030-G004 7) single 
study, rest or stress ( exercise and/or 
pharmacologic)
*Myocardial perfusion imaging (following
3/14/95 
G0031 
previous PET G0030-G004 7) multiple 
studies, rest or stress (exercise and/or 
pharmacologic) 
*Myocardial perfusion imaging (following rest
3114/95 
G0032 
SPECT, 78464); single study, rest or stress 
(exercise and/or pharmacologic)
*Myocardial perfusion imaging (following 
3114/95 
G0033 
rest SPECT 78464): multiple studies, rest or 
stress (exercise and/or pharmacologic) 
*Myocardial perfusion (following stress 
3114/95 
G0034 
SPECT 78465); single study, rest or stress 
(exercise and/or pharmacologic)
*Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (following
3/14/95 
G0035 
stress SPECT 78465); multiple studies, rest
or stress (exercise and/or pharmacologic)
*Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (following 
3/14/95 
G0036 
coronary angiography 93510-93529);
single study, rest or stress (exercise and/or
pharmacologic)
'Myocardial Perfusion Imaging, (following 
3/14/95 
G0037 
coronary angiography), 93510-93529); 
multiple studies, rest or stress (exercise and/ 
or pharmacologic) 
'Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (following 
3114/95 
G0038 
stress planar myocardial perfusion, 78460); 
single study, rest or stress (exercise and/or 
pharmacologic) 
'Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (following 
3114/95 
G0039 
stress planar myocardial perfusion, 78460); 
multiple studies, rest or stress (exercise and/ 
or pharmacologic) 
*Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (following 
3/14/95 
G0040 
stress echocardiogram 93350); single
study, rest or stress (exercise and/or
pharmacologic) 
*Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (following
3/14/95 
G0041 
stress echocardiogram, 93350); multiple 
studies, rest or stress (exercise and/or 
pharmacologic)
705 
Conditions 
Coverage 
.... HCPCS/ 
Effective 
CPT® 
Date 
*Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (following
3/14/95 
G0042 
stress nuclear ventriculogram 78481 or
78483); single study, rest or stress (exercise
and/or pharmacologic) 
*Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (following 
3/14/95 
G0043 
stress nuclear ventriculogram 78481 or
78483); multiple studies, rest or stress 
(exercise and/or pharmacologic) 
*Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (following 
3/14/95 
G0044 
stress ECG, 93000); single study, rest or 
stress (exercise and/or pharmacologic)
*Myocardial perfusion (following stress
3/14/95 
G0045 
ECG, 93000), multiple studies; rest or stress
(exercise and/or pharmacologic)
*Myocardial perfusion (following stress ECG, 
3/14/95 
G0046 
93015), single study; rest or stress (exercise
and/or pharmacologic) 
*Myocardial perfusion (following stress 
3/14/95 
G0047 
ECG, 93015); multiple studies, rest or stress 
(exercise and/or pharmacologic) 
PET imaging regional or whole body; single 
1/1/98 
G0125 
pulmonary nodule 
Lung cancer, non-small cell (PET imaging 
7/1/01 
G0210 
whole body) 
G0211 
Diagnosis, Initial Staging, Restaging 
G0212 
Colorectal cancer (PET imaging whole body) 
7/1/01 
G0213 
Diagnosis, Initial Staging, Restaging 
G0214 
G0215 
Melanoma (PET imaging whole body) 
7/1/01 
G0216 
Diagnosis, Initial Staging, Restaging 
G0217 
G0218 
Melanoma for non-covered indications 
7/1/01 
#G0219 
Lymphoma (PET imaging whole body) 
7/1/01 
G0220 
Diagnosis, Initial Staging, Restaging 
G0221 
G0222 
Head and neck cancer; excluding thyroid and 
7/1/01 
G0223 
CNS cancers (PET imaging whole body or 
G0224 
regional) 
G0225 
Diagnosis, Initial Staging, Restaging 
Esophageal cancer (PET imaging whole 
7/1/01 
G0226 
body) 
G0227 
Diagnosis, Initial Staging, Restaging 
G0228 
Metabolic brain imaging for pre-surgical 
7/1/01 
G0229 
evaluation of refractory seizures 
Metabolic assessment for myocardial viability 
7/1/01 
G0230 
following inconclusive SPECT study 
Recurrence of colorectal or colorectal 
1/1/02 
G0231 
metastatic cancer (PET whole body, gamma 
cameras only) 
Staging and characterization of lymphoma 
1/1/02 
G0232 
(PET whole body, gamma cameras only) 
Recurrence of melanoma or melanoma 
1/1/02 
G0233 
metastatic cancer (PET whole body, gamma 
cameras only) 
Regional or whole body, for solitary 
1/1/02 
G0234 
pulmonary nodule following CT, or for initial 
staging of non-small cell lung cancer (gamma 
cameras only) 
706 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Conditions 
Coverage 
.... HCPCS/ 
Effective 
CPT® 
Date 
Non-Covered Service 
1/28/05 
#G0235 
PET imaging, any site not otherwise specified 
Non-Covered Service 
10/1/02 
#G0252 
Initial diagnosis of breast cancer and/or 
surgical planning for breast cancer (e.g., 
initial staging of axillary lymph nodes), not 
covered (full- and partial-ring PET scanners 
only) 
Breast cancer, staging/restaging of local 
10/1/02 
G0253 
regional recurrence or distant metastases, 
i.e., staging/restaging after or prior to course 
of treatment (full- and partial-ring PET 
scanners only) 
Breast cancer, evaluation of responses 
10/1/02 
G0254 
to treatment, performed during course of 
treatment (full- and partial-ring PET scanners 
only) 
Myocardial imaging, positron emission 
10/1/02 
78459 
tomography (PET), metabolic evaluation) 
Restaging or previously treated thyroid 
10/1/03 
G0296 
cancer of follicular cell origin following 
negative 1-131 whole body scan (full- and 
partial-ring PET scanner only) 
Tracer Rubidium"82 (Supply of 
10/1/03 
Q3000 
Radiopharmaceutical Diagnostic Imaging 
Agent) 
(This is only billed through Outpatient 
Perspective Payment System, OPPS.) 
(Carriers must use HCPCS Code A4641 ). 
*"Supply of Radiopharmaceutical Diagnostic 
01/1/04 
A9526 
Imaging Agent, Ammonia N-13"* 
PET imaging, brain imaging for the 
09/15/04 
Appropriate 
differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease 
CPT®Code 
with aberrant features vs. fronto-temporal 
from section 
dementia 
60.3.1 
PET Cervical Cancer Staging as adjunct 
1/28/05 
Appropriate 
to conventional imaging, other staging, 
CPT®Code 
diagnosis, restaging, monitoring 
from section 
60.3.1 
*NOTE: A/B MACs (B) must reportA4641 for the tracer
Rubidium 82 when used with PET scan codes G0030 through
G0047 for services performed on or before January 27, 2005.
**NOTE: Not FOG PET 
***NOTE: For dates of service October 1, 2003, through 
December 31, 2003, use temporary code 04078 for billing this 
radiopharmaceutical. 
100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3.1
Appropriate CPT® Codes Effective for PET Scans 
for Services Performed on or After January 28, 
2005 
NOTE: All PET scan services require the use of a 
radiopharmaceutical diagnostic imaging agent (tracer). The 
applicable tracer code should be billed when billing for a PET 
scan service. See section 60.3.2 below for applicable tracer 
codes. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. A// rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
cP-recode 
Description 
78429 
Myocardial imaging, positron emission tomography (PET}, 
metabolic evaluation study, single study; with concurrently 
acquired computed tomography transmission scan 
78430 
Myocardial imaging, positron emission tomography (PET), 
perfusion study; single study, at rest or stress (exercise 
or pharmacologic), with concurrently acquired computed 
tomography transmission scan 
78431 
Myocardial imaging, positron emission tomography (PET), 
perfusion study; multiple studies at rest and stress, with 
concurrently acquired computed tomography transmission 
scan 
78432 
Myocardial imaging, positron emission tomography (PET), 
combined perfusion with metabolic evaluation study, dual 
radiotracer; 
78433 
Myocardial imaging, positron emission tomography (PET), 
combined perfusion with metabolic evaluation study, dual 
radiotracer; with concurrently acquired computed tomography 
transmission scan 
78434 
Absolute quantitation of myocardial blood flow (AQMBF), 
positron emission tomography (PET), rest and pharrnacologic 
stress 
78459 
Myocardial imaging, positron emission tomography (PET), 
metabolic evaluation 
78491 
Myocardial imaging, positron emission tomography (PET}, 
perfusion, single study at rest or stress 
78492 
Myocardial imaging, positron emission tomography (PET}, 
perfusion, multiple studies at rest and/or stress 
78608 
Brain imaging, positron emission tomography (PET); 
metabolic evaluation 
78811 
Tumor imaging, positron emission tomography (PET}; limited 
area (eg, chest, head/neck} 
78812 
Tumor imaging, positron emission tomography (PET}; skull 
base to mid-thigh 
78813 
Tumor imaging, positron emission tomography (PET); whole 
body 
78814 
Tumor imaging, positron emission tomography (PET} with 
concurrently acquired computed tomography (CT) for 
attenuation correction and anatomical localization; limited 
area (e.g., chest, head/neck) 
78815 
Tumor imaging, positron emission tomography (PET} with 
concurrently acquired computed tomography (CT) for 
attenuation correction and anatomical localization; skull base 
to mid-thigh 
78816 
Tumor imaging, positron emission tomography (PET) with 
concurrently acquired computed tomography (CT) for 
attenuation correction and anatomical localization; whole body 
100-4, Chapter-13, 60.3.2
Tracer Codes Required for Positron Emission 
Tomography (PET) Scans 
An applicable tracer/radiopharmaceutical code, along 
with an applicable Current Procedural Technology (CPT®) 
code, is necessary for claims processing of any Positron 
Emission Tomography (PET) scan services. While there 
are a number of PET tracers already billable for a diverse 
number of medical indications, there have been, and may 
be in the future, additional PET indications that might 
require a new PET tracer. Under those circumstances, the 
process to request/approve/implement a new code could 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
be time-intensive. To help alleviate inordinate spans of time 
between when a national coverage determination is made, 
or when the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approves 
a particular radiopharmaceutical for an oncologic indication 
already approved by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services (CMS), and when it can be fully implemented via 
valid claims processing, CMS has created two new PET 
radiopharmaceutical unclassified tracer codes that can be 
used temporarily. This time period would be pending the 
creation/approval/implementation of permanent CPT® codes 
that would later specifically define their function by CMS in 
official instructions. 
Effective with dates of service on or after January 1, 2018, 
the following Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) codes shall be used ONLY AS NECESSARY FOR 
AN INTERIM PERIOD OF TIME under the circumstances 
explained here. Specifically, there are two circumstances 
that would warrant use of the below codes: (1) After FDA 
approval of a PET oncologic indication, or, (2) after CMS 
approves coverage of a new PET indication, and ONLY if 
either of those situations requires the use of a dedicated PET 
radiopharmaceutical/tracer that is currently non-existent. Once 
permanent replacement codes are officially implemented by 
CMS, use of the temporary code for that particular indication 
will simultaneously be discontinued. 
NOTE: The following two codes were effective as of January 1, 
2017, with the January 2017 quarterly HCPCS update. 
A9597 - Positron emission tomography radiopharmaceutical, 
diagnostic, for tumor identification, not otherwise classified 
A9598 - Positron emission tomography radiopharmaceutical, 
diagnostic, for non-tumor identification, not otherwise classified 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after January 1, 
2018, when PET tracer code A9597 or A9598 are present on a 
claim, that claim must also include: 
-an appropriate PET HCPCS code, either 78459, 78491, 
78492, 78608, 78811, 78812, 78813, 78814, 78815,or 78816, 
-if tumor-related, either the -Pl or -PS modifier as appropriate, 
-if clinical trial, registry, or study-related outside of 
NCD220.6.17, PET for Solid Tumors, clinical trial modifier -QO, 
-if clinical trial, registry, or study-related, all claims require the 
8-digit clinical trial number, 
-if Part A OP and clinical trial, registry, or study-related outside
of NCD220.6.17, PET for Solid Tumors, also include condition
code 30 and ICD-10 diagnosis Z00.6.
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after January 
1, 2018, A/Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs) shall 
line-item deny, and B/MACs shall line-item reject, PET claims 
for A9597 or A9598 that don't include the elements noted 
above as appropriate. 
Contractors shall use the following messaging when line-item 
denying (Part A) or line item rejecting (Part B) PET claims 
containing HCPCS A9597 or A9598: 
Remittance Advice Remark Codes (RARC) N386 
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 50, 96, and/or 119. 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning financial 
liability to the provider (if a claim is received with a GZ modifier 
indicating no signed ABN is on file). 
(The above new verbiage will supersede any existing verbiage 
in chapter 13, section 60.3.2.) 
707 
100-4, Chapter-13, 60.13
Billing Requirements for PET Scans for Specific 
Indications of Cervical Cancer for Services 
Performed on or After January 28, 2005 
Contractors shall accept claims for these services with the 
appropriate CPT® code listed in section 60.3.1. Refer to Pub. 
100-03, section 220.6.17, for complete coverage guidelines
for this new PET oncology indication. The implementation date
for these CPT® codes will be April 18, 2005. Also see section
60 .17, of this chapter for further claims processing instructions
for cervical cancer indications.
100-4, Chapter-13, 60.14
Billing Requirements for PET Scans for Non­
Covered Indications 
For services performed on or after January 28, 2005, 
contractors shall accept claims with the following HCPCS code 
for non-covered PET indications: 
-G0235: PET imaging, any site not otherwise specified
Short Descriptor: PET not otherwise specified Type of 
Service:4
NOTE: This code is for a non-covered service. 
100-4, Chapter-13, 60.15
Billing Requirements for CMS - Approved Clinical 
Trials and Coverage With Evidence Development 
Claims for PET Scans for Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, Previously Specified Cancer 
Indications, and All Other Cancer Indications Not 
Previously Specified 
AIB MA Cs (A and B) 
Effective for services on or after January 28, 2005, contractors 
shall accept and pay for claims for Positron Emission 
Tomography (PET) scans for lung cancer, esophageal 
cancer, colorectal cancer, lymphoma, melanoma, head 
& neck cancer, breast cancer, thyroid cancer, soft tissue 
sarcoma, brain cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, 
small cell lung cancer, and testicular cancer, as well as for 
neurodegenerative diseases and all other cancer indications 
not previously mentioned in this chapter, if these scans were 
performed as part of a Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
(CMS)-approved clinical trial. (See Pub. 100-03, National 
Coverage Determinations (NCO) Manual, sections 220.6.13 
and 220.6.17.) 
Contractors shall also be aware that PET scans for all cancers 
not previously specified at Pub. 100-03, NCO Manual, section 
220.6.17, remain nationally non-covered unless performed in 
conjunction with a CMS-approved clinical trial. 
Effective for dates of service on or after June 11 2013 
Medicare has ended the coverage with evidenc} deveiopment 
(CED) requirement for FOG (2-[F18] fluoro-2-deoxy-Dglucose) 
PET and PET/computed tomography (CT) and PET/magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) for all oncologic indications 
contained in section 220.6.17 of the NCO Manual. Modifier -Q0 
(lnvestigational clinical service provided in a clinical research 
study that is in an approved clinical research study) or -Q1 
(rouUne clinical service provided in a clinical research study 
that 1s 1n an approved clinical research study) is no longer 
mandatory for these services when performed on or after 
June 11, 2013. 
708 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
AIB MACs (B) Only 
A/B MACs (B) shall pay claims for PET scans for beneficiaries 
participating in a CMS approved clinical trial submitted with 
an appropriate current procedural terminology (CPT®) code 
from section 60.3.1 of this chapter and modifier Q0/Q1 for 
services performed on or after January 1, 2008, through June 
10, 2013. (NOTE: Modifier QR (Item or service provided in a 
Medicare specified study) and QA (FDA investigational device 
exemption) were replaced by modifier Q0 effective January 1, 
2008.) Modifier QV (item or service provided as routine care in 
a Medicare qualifying clinical trial) was replaced by modifier Q1 
effective January 1, 2008.) Beginning with services performed 
on or after June 11, 2013, modifier Q0/Q1 is no longer required 
for PET FOG services. 
AIB MACs (A) Only 
In order to pay claims for PET scans on behalf of beneficiaries 
participating in a CMS approved clinical trial, A/B MACs 
(A) require providers to submit claims with, if ICD-9- CM is
applicable, ICD-9 code V70.7; if ICD-10-CM is applicable,
ICD-10 code 200.6 in the primary/secondary diagnosis position
using the ASC X12 837 institutional claim format or on Form
CMS-1450, with the appropriate principal diagnosis code and
an appropriate CPT® code from section 60.3.1. Effective for
PET scan claims for dates of service on or after January 28,
2005, through December 31, 2007, A/B MACs (A) shall accept
claims with the QR, QV, or QA modifier on other than inpatient
claims. Effective for services on or after January 1, 2008,
through June 10, 2013, modifier Q0 replaced the QR and QA
modifier, modifier Q1 replaced the QV modifier. Modifier Q0/
Q1 is no longer required for services performed on or after
June 11, 2013.
100-4, Chapter-13, 60.16
Billing and Coverage Changes for PET Scans 
Effective for Services on or After April 3, 2009 
A. Summary of Changes
Effective for services on or after April 3, 2009, Medicare will 
not cover the use of FOG PET imaging to determine initial 
treatment strategy in patients with adenocarcinoma of the 
prostate. 
Medicare will also not cover FOG PET imaging for subsequent 
treatment strategy for tumor types other than breast, cervical, 
colorectal, esophagus, head and neck (non-CNS/thyroid), 
lymphoma, melanoma, myeloma, non-small cell lung, and 
ovarian, unless the FOG PET is provided under the coverage 
with evidence development (CED) paradigm (billed with 
modifier -Q0/-Q1, see section 60.15 of this chapter). 
Medicare will cover FOG PET imaging for initial treatment 
strategy for myeloma. 
Effective for services performed on or after June 11, 2013, 
Medicare has ended the CED requirement for FOG PET and 
PET/CT and PET/MRI for all oncologic indications contained 
in section 220.6.17 of the NCO Manual. Effective for services 
on or after June 11, 2013, the Q0/Q1 modifier is no longer 
required. 
Beginning with services performed on or after June 11, 2013, 
contractors shall pay for up to three (3) FOG PET scans 
when used to guide subsequent management of anti-tumor 
treatment strategy (modifier PS) after completion of initial 
anti-cancer therapy (modifier Pl) for the exact same cancer 
diagnosis. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Coverage of any additional FDG PET scans (that is, beyond 
3) used to guide subsequent management of anti-tumor
treatment strategy after completion of initial anti-tumor therapy
for the same cancer diagnosis will be determined by the A/B
MACs (A or B). Claims will include the KX modifier indicating
the coverage criteria is met for coverage of four or more FDG
PET scans for subsequent treatment strategy for the same
cancer diagnosis under this NCD.
A different cancer diagnosis whether submitted with a Pl or 
a PS modifier will begin the count of one initial and three 
subsequent FDG PET scans not requiring the KX modifier 
and four or more FDG PET scans for subsequent treatment 
strategy for the same cancer diagnosis requiring the KX 
modifier. 
NOTE: The presence or absence of an initial treatment 
strategy claim in a beneficiary's record does not impact the 
frequency criteria for subsequent treatment strategy claims for 
the same cancer diagnosis. 
NOTE: Providers please refer to the following link for 
a list of appropriate diagnosis codes, http://cms.gov/ 
medicare/coverage/determinationprocess/downloads/ 
pelforsolidtumorsonc ologicdxcodesattachment 
NCD220_6_ 17.pdf 
For further information regarding the changes in coverage, 
refer to Pub.100-03, NCD Manual, section 220.6.17. 
B. Modifiers for PET Scans
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after April 3, 
2009. the following modifiers have been created for use to 
inform for the initial treatment strategy of biopsy-proven or 
strongly suspected tumors or subsequent treatment strategy of 
cancerous tumors: 
Pl Positron Emission Tomography (PET) or PET/Computed 
Tomography (CT) to inform the initial treatment strategy of 
tumors that are biopsy proven or strongly suspected of being 
cancerous based on other diagnostic testing. 
Short descriptor: PET tumor init tx strat 
PS Positron Emission Tomography (PET) or PET/Computed 
Tomography (CT) to inform the subsequent treatment strategy 
of cancerous tumors when the beneficiary's treatment 
physician determines that the PET study is needed to inform 
subsequent anti-tumor strategy. 
Short descriptor: PS - PET tumor subsq Ix strategy 
C. Billing for AIB MACs (A and B)
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after April 3, 
2009, contractors shall accept FDG PET claims billed to inform 
initial treatment strategy with the following CPT® codes 
AND modifier Pl: 78608, 78811, 78812, 78813, 78814, 78815, 
78816. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after April 3, 
2009, contractors shall accept FDG PET claims with modifier 
PS for the subsequent treatment strategy for solid tumors 
using a CPT® code above AND a cancer diagnosis code. 
Contractors shall also accept FDG PET claims billed to 
inform initial treatment strategy or subsequent treatment 
strategy when performed under CED with one of the PET 
or PET/CT CPT® codes above AND modifier Pl OR modifier 
PS AND a cancer diagnosis code AND modifier Q0/Q1. 
Effective for services performed on or after June 11, 2013, the 
CED requirement has ended and modifier Q0/Q1. along with 
condition code 30 (institutional claims only), or ICD-9 code 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
V70.7. (both institutional and practitioner claims) are no longer 
required. 
D. Medicare Summary Notices, Remittance Advice
Remark Codes, and Claim Adjustment Reason Codes
Effective for dates of service on or after April 3, 2009, 
contractors shall return as unprocessable/return to provider 
claims that do not include the Pl modifier with one of the PET/ 
PET/CT CPT® codes listed in subsection C. above when billing 
for the initial treatment strategy for solid tumors in accordance 
with Pub.100-03, NCD Manual, section 220.6.17. 
In addition, contractors shall return as unprocessable/return 
to provider claims that do not include the PS modifier with 
one of the CPT® codes listed in subsection C. above when 
billing for the subsequent treatment strategy for solid tumors in 
accordance with Pub.100-03, NCD Manual, section 220.6.17. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when returning claims under 
this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is compliant with 
CAQH CORE Business Scenario Two. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 4 
RARC: MA130 
MSN: N/A 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after April 3, 
2009, through June 10, 2013, contractors shall return as 
unprocessable/return to provider FDG PET claims billed to 
inform initial treatment strategy or subsequent treatment 
strategy when performed under CED without one of the PET/ 
PET/CT CPT® codes listed in subsection C. above AND 
modifier Pl OR modifier PS AND a cancer diagnosis code AND 
modifier Q0/Q1. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when returning claims under 
this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is compliant with 
CAQH CORE Business Scenario Two. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 4 
RARC: MA130 
MSN: N/A 
Effective April 3, 2009, contractors shall deny claims with 
ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis code 185/C61 for FDG PET 
imaging for the initial treatment strategy of patients with 
adenocarcinoma of the prostate. 
For dates of service prior to June 11. 2013, contractors shall 
also deny claims for FDG PET imaging for subsequent 
treatment strategy for tumor types other than breast, 
cervical, colorectal, esophagus, head and neck (non-CNS/ 
thyroid), lymphoma, melanoma, myeloma, non-small cell lung, 
and ovarian, unless the FDG PET is provided under CED 
(submitted with the Q0/Q1 modifier) and use the following 
messages: 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when rejecting/denying 
claims under this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is 
compliant with CAQH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
Group Code: PR (if claim is received with a GA modifier) 
otherwise CO 
709 
CARC: 50 
RARC: N/A 
MSN: 15.4 
Effective for dates of service on or after June 11, 2013, 
contractors shall use the following messages when denying 
claims in excess of three for PET FOG scans for subsequent 
treatment strategy when the KX modifier is not included, 
identified by CPT® codes 78608, 78811, 78812, 78813, 78814, 
78815, or 78816, modifier PS, HCPCS A9552, and the same 
cancer diagnosis code. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when rejecting/denying 
claims under this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is 
compliant with CAQH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
Group Code: PR (if claim is received with a GA modifier) 
otherwise CO 
CARC: 96 
RARC: N435 
MSN: 23.17 
100-4, Chapter-13, 60.17
Billing and Coverage Changes for PET Scans for 
Cervical 
A. Billing Changes for AIB MACs (A and BJ
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after November 
10, 2009, contractors shall accept FOG PET oncologic claims 
billed to inform initial treatment strategy; specifically for staging 
in beneficiaries who have biopsy-proven cervical cancer when 
the beneficiary's treating physician determines the FOG PET 
study is needed to determine the location and/or extent of the 
tumor as specified in Pub. 100-03, section 220.6.17. 
EXCEPTION: CMS continues to non-cover FOG PET for initial 
diagnosis of cervical cancer related to initial treatment strategy. 
NOTE: Effective for claims with dates of service on and after 
November 10, 2009, the - Q0 modifier is no longer necessary 
for FOG PET for cervical cancer. 
B. Medicare Summary Notices, Remittance Advice
Remark Codes, and Claim
Adjustment Reason Codes
Additionally, contractors shall return as unprocessable / return 
to provider for FOG PET for cervical cancer for initial treatment 
strategy billed without the following: one of the PET/PET/CT 
CPT® codes listed in 60.16 C above AND modifier Pl AND a 
cervical cancer diagnosis code. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when returning claims under 
this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is compliant with 
CAQH CORE Business Scenario Two. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 4 
RARC: MA130 
MSN: N/A 
710 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-13, 60.18
Billing and Coverage Changes for PET (NaF-18) 
Scans to Identify Bone Metastasis of Cancer 
Effective for Claims With Dates of Services on or 
After February 26, 2010 
A. Billing Changes for A/B MACs (A and BJ
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after February 
26, 2010, contractors shall pay for NaF-18 PET oncologic 
claims to inform of initial treatment strategy (Pl) or subsequent 
treatment strategy (PS) for suspected or biopsy proven bone 
metastasis ONLY in the context of a clinical study and as 
specified in Pub. 100-03, section 220.6. All other claims for 
NaF-18 PET oncology claims remain non-covered. 
B. Medicare Summary Notices, Remittance Advice
Remark Codes, and Claim Adjustment Reason Codes
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after February 26, 
2010, contractors shall return as unprocessable NaF-18 PET 
oncologic claims billed with modifier TC or globally (for 
A/B MACs (A) modifier TC or globally does not apply) 
and HCPCS A9580 to inform the initial treatment strategy or 
subsequent treatment strategy for bone metastasis that do not 
include ALL of the following: 
Pl or PS modifier AND 
• 
PET or PET/CT CPT® code(78811, 78812, 78813,
78814, 78815, 78816)AND
• 
Cancer diagnosis code AND
•
Q0 modifier - lnvestigational clinical service provided in a
clinical research study, are present on the claim.
NOTE: For institutional claims, continue to include ICD-9 
diagnosis code V70. 7 or ICD-10 diagnosis code Z00.6 and 
condition code 30 to denote a clinical study. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when returning claims under 
this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is compliant with 
CAQH CORE Business Scenario Two 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 4 
RARC: MA130 
MSN: N/A 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after February 
26, 2010, contractors shall accept PET oncologic claims billed 
with modifier 26 and modifier KX to inform the initial treatment 
strategy or subsequent treatment strategy for bone metastasis 
that include the following: 
Pl or PS modifier AND 
• 
PET or PET/CT CPT® code (78811, 78812, 78813,
78814, 78815, 78816) AND• Cancer diagnosis code
AND
• 
Q0 modifier - lnvestigational clinical service provided in a
clinical research study, are present on the claim.
NOTE: If modifier KX is present on the professional 
component service, Contractors shall process the service as 
PET NaF-18 rather than PET with FOG. 
Contractors shall also return as unprocessable NaF-18 PET 
oncologic professional component claims (i.e., claims billed 
with modifiers 26 and KX) to inform the initial treatment 
strategy or subsequent treatment strategy for bone metastasis 
billed with HCPCS A9580. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when returning claims under 
this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is compliant with 
CAOH CORE Business Scenario Two. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 4 
RARC: MA130 
MSN: N/A 
NOTE: Effective for claims with dates of service on or after 
12/15/2017, HCPCS code A9580 (NaF-18) is nationally non­
covered. 
100-4, Chapter-13, 140
Bone Mass Measurements (BMMs) 
Sections 1861 (s )( 15)and (rr)( 1 )of the Social Security Act (the 
Act) (as added by §4106 of the Balanced Budget Act (BBA) of 
1997) standardize Medicare coverage of medically necessary 
bone mass measurements by providing for uniform coverage 
under Medicare Part B. This coverage is effective for claims 
with dates of service furnished on or after July 1, 1998. 
Effective for dates of service on and after January 1 , 2007, 
the CY 2007 Physician Fee Schedule final rule expanded 
the number of beneficiaries qualifying for BMM by reducing 
the dosage requirement for glucocorticoid (steroid) therapy 
from 7.5 mg of prednisone per day to 5.0 mg. It also changed 
the definition of BMM by removing coverage for a single­
photon absorptiometry as it is not considered reasonable and 
necessary under section 1862 (a)(1 )(A) of the Act. Finally, 
it required that in the case of monitoring and confirmatory 
baseline BMMs, they be performed with a dual-energy X-ray 
absorptiometry (axial) test. 
Conditions of Coverage for BM Ms are located in Pub.100-02, 
Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, chapter 15. 
100-4, Chapter-14, 40.3
Payment for lntraocular Lens (IOL) 
Prior to January 1, 2008, payment for facility services furnished 
by an ASC for IOL insertion during or subsequent to cataract 
surgery includes an allowance for the lens. The procedures 
that include insertion of an IOL are: 
Payment Group 6: CPT®-4 Codes 66985 and 66986 
Payment Group 8: CPT®-4 Codes 66982, 66983 and 
66984 
Physicians or suppliers are not paid for an IOL furnished to a 
beneficiary in an ASC after July 1, 1988. Separate claims for 
IOLs furnished to ASC patients beginning March 12, 1990 are 
denied. Also, effective March 12, 1990, procedures 66983 and 
66984 are treated as single procedures for payment purposes. 
Beginning January 1, 2008, the Medicare payment for the IOL 
is included in the Medicare ASC payment for the associated 
surgical procedure. Consequently, no separate payment 
for the IOL is made, except for a payment adjustment for 
NTIOLs established according to the process outlined in 42 
CFR 416.185. ASCs should not report separate charges for 
conventional IOLs because their payment is included in the 
Medicare payment for the associated surgical procedure. The 
ASC payment system logic that excluded $150 for IOLs for 
purposes of the multiple surgery reduction in cases of cataract 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
surgery prior to January 1, 2008 no longer applies, effective for 
dates of service on or after January 1, 2008. 
Effective for dates of service on and after February 27, 2006, 
through February 26, 2011, Medicare pays an additional 
$50 for specified Category 3 NTIOLs that are provided in 
association with a covered ASC surgical procedure. The list 
of Category 3 NTIOLS is available at: https://www.cms.gov/ 
Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for-ServicePayment/ASCPaymenU 
NTIOLs.html 
ASCs should use HCPCS code 01003 to bill for a Category 3 
NTIOL. HCPCS code 01003, along with one of the approved 
surgical procedure codes (CPT® codes 66982, 66983, 66984, 
66985, 66986) are to be used on all NTIOL Category 3 claims 
associated with reduced spherical aberration from February 
27, 2006, through February 26, 2011. The payment adjustment 
for the NTIOL is subject to beneficiary coinsurance but is not 
wage-adjusted. 
Any subsequent IOL recognized by CMS as having the same 
characteristics as the first NTIOL recognized by CMS for a 
payment adjustment as a Category Ill NTIOL (those of reduced 
spherical aberration) will receive the same adjustment for 
the remainder of the 5- year period established by the first 
recognized IOL. 
100-4, Chapter-14, 40.8
Payment When a Device is Furnished With No 
Cost or With Full or Partial Credit Beginning 
January 1, 2008 
Contractors pay ASCs a reduced amount for certain specified 
procedures when a specified device is furnished without 
cost or for which either a partial or full credit is received 
(e.g., device recall). For specified procedure codes that 
include payment for a device, ASCs are required to include 
modifier -FB on the procedure code when a specified device 
is furnished without cost or for which full credit is received. 
If the ASC receives a partial credit of 50 percent or more of 
the cost of a specified device, the ASC is required to include 
modifier -FC on the procedure code if the procedure is on 
the list of specified procedures to which the -FC reduction 
applies. A single procedure code should not be submitted with 
both modifiers -FB and -FC. The pricing determination related 
to modifiers -FB and -FC is made prior to the application of 
multiple procedure payment reductions. Contractors adjust 
beneficiary coinsurance to reflect the reduced payment 
amount. Tables listing the procedures and devices to which the 
payment adjustments apply, and the full and partial adjustment 
amounts, are available on the CMS Web site. 
In order to report that the receipt of a partial credit of 
50 percent or more of the cost of a device, ASCs have the 
option of either: 1) Submitting the claim for the procedure to 
their Medicare contractor after the procedure's performance 
but prior to manufacturer acknowledgement of credit for a 
specified device, and subsequently contacting the contractor 
regarding a claims adjustment once the credit determination 
is made; or 2) holding the claim for the procedure until a 
determination is made by the manufacturer on the partial credit 
and submitting the claim with modifier -FC appended to the 
implantation procedure HCPCS code if the partial credit is 
50 percent or more of the cost of the device. If choosing the 
first billing option, to request a claims adjustment once the 
credit determination is made, ASCs should keep in mind that 
the initial Medicare payment for the procedure involving the 
device is conditional and subject to adjustment. 
711 
100-4, Chapter-14, 40.9
Payment and Coding for Presbyopia Correcting 
IOLs (P-C IOLs) and Astigmatism Correcting IOLs 
(A-C IOLs) 
CMS payment policies and recognition of P-C IOLs and 
A-C IOLs are contained in Transmittal 636 (CR3927) and
Transmittal 1228 (CR5527) respectively. 
Effective for dates of service on and after January 1, 2008, 
when inserting an approved A-C IOL in an ASC concurrent 
with cataract extraction, HCPCS code V2787 (Astigmatism­
correcting function of intraocular lens) should be billed to report 
the non-covered charges for the A-C IOL functionality of the 
inserted intraocular lens. 
Additionally, note that HCPCS code V2788 (Presbyopia­
correcting function of intraocular lens) is no longer valid to 
report non-covered charges associated with the A-C IOL. 
However, this code continues to be valid to report non-covered 
charges for a P-C IOL. The payment for the conventional lens 
portion of the A-C IOL and P-C IOL continues to be bundled 
with the ASC procedure payment. 
Effective for services on and after January 1, 2010, ASCs are 
to bill for insertion of a Category 3 new technology intraocular 
lens (NTIOL) that is also an approved A-C IOL or P-C IOL, 
concurrent with cataract extraction, using three separate 
codes. ASCs shall use HCPCS code V2787 or V2788, as 
appropriate, to report charges associated with the non-covered 
functionality of the A-C IOL or P-C IOL, the appropriate 
HCPCS code 66982 (Extracapsular cataract removal with 
insertion of intraocular lens prosthesis ( one stage procedure), 
manual or mechanical technique (e.g., irrigation and aspiration 
or phacoemulsification), complex, requiring devices or 
techniques not generally used in routine cataract surgery (e.g., 
iris expansion device, suture support for intraocular lens, or 
primary posterior capsulorrhexis) or performed on patients in 
the amblyogenic developmental stage); 66983 (lntracapsular 
cataract extraction with insertion of intraocular lens prosthesis 
(1 stage procedure)); or 66984 (Extracapsular cataract 
removal with insertion of intraocular lens prosthesis (1 stage 
procedure), manual or mechanical technique (e.g., irrigation 
and aspiration or phacoemulsification)), to report the covered 
cat;;iract extraction and insertion procedure; and Q1003 (New 
technology, intraocular lens, category 3 (reduced spherical 
aberration) as defined in Federal Register notice, Vol. 65, 
dated May 3, 2000) to report the covered NTIOL aspect of the 
lens on claims for insertion of an A-C IOL or P-C IOL that is 
also designated as an NTIOL. Listings of the CMS-approved 
Category 3 NTIOLs, A-C IOLs, and P-C IOLs are available on 
the CMS Website. 
100-4, Chapter-14, 60.1
Applicable Messages for NTIOLs 
Contractors shall return as unprocessable any claims for 
NTIOLs containing 01003 alone or with a code other than one 
of the procedure codes listed in 40.3. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when returning claims under 
this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is compliant with 
CAOH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 16 
RARC: M67 
712 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
MSN: N/A 
Contractors shall deny payment for Q1003 if services are 
furnished in a facility other than a Medicare-approved ASC. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when denying claims under 
this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is compliant with 
CAOH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 58 
RARC: N/A 
MSN: 16.2 
Contractors shall deny payment for 01003 if billed by an entity 
other than a Medicare approved ASC. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when denying claims under 
this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is compliant with 
CAOH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 170 
RARC: N/A 
MSN: 33.1 
Contractors shall deny payment for O 1003 if submitted for 
payment past the discontinued date (after the 5-year period, or 
after February 26, 2011 ). 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when rejecting/denying 
claims under this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is 
compliant with CAOH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 27 
RARC: N/A 
MSN: 21.11 
A/B MACs (B) shall deny payment for 01003 if services are 
furnished in a facility other than a Medicare-approved ASC. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when denying claims under 
this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is compliant with 
CAOH CORE Business Scenario Three. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 58 
RARC: N/A 
MSN: 16.2 
100-4, Chapter-15, 10.4
Additional Introductory Guidelines 
Since April 1, 2002 (the beginning of the transition to the full 
implementation of the ambulance fee schedule), payment for a 
medically necessary ambulance service is based on the level 
of service provided, not on the vehicle used. 
Ambulance services are separately reimbursable only under 
Part B. Once a beneficiary is admitted to a hospital, Critical 
Access Hospitals (CAH), or Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF), 
it may be necessary to transport the beneficiary to another 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
hospital or other site temporarily for specialized care while 
the beneficiary maintains inpatient status with the original 
provider. This movement of the patient is considered "patient 
transportation" and is covered as an inpatient hospital or CAH 
service under Part A and as a SNF service when the SNF is 
furnishing it as a covered SNF service and Part A payment 
is made for that service. Because the service is covered and 
payable as a beneficiary transportation service under Part A, 
the service cannot be classified and paid for as an ambulance 
service under Part B. This includes intra-campus transfers 
between different departments of the same hospital, even 
where the departments are located in separate buildings. 
Such intra-campus transfers are not separately payable under 
the Part B ambulance benefit. Such costs are accounted for 
in the same manner as the costs of such a transfer within a 
single building. See IOM Pub. 100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy 
Manual, chapter 10 - Ambulance Services, section 10.3.3 -
Separately Payable Ambulance Transport Under Part B Versus 
Patient Transportation that is Covered Under a Packaged 
Institutional Service for further details. Refer to IOM Pub. 100-
04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, chapter 3 - Inpatient 
Hospital Billing, section 10.5 - Hospital Inpatient Bundling 
for additional information on hospital inpatient bundling of 
ambulance services. Refer to IOM Pub. 100-04, Medicare 
Claims Processing Manual, chapter 3 - Inpatient Hospital 
Billing for the definitions of an inpatient for the various inpatient 
facility types. All Prospective Payment Systems (PPS) have a 
different criteria for determining when ambulance services are 
payable (i.e., during an interrupted stay, on date of admission 
and date of discharge). 
NOTE: The cost of oxygen and its administration in connection 
with and as part of the ambulance service is covered. Under 
the ambulance FS, oxygen and other items and services 
provided as part of the transport are included in the FS base 
payment rate and are NOT separately payable. 
The A/8 MAC (A) is responsible for the processing of claims 
for ambulance services furnished by a hospital based 
ambulance or for ambulance services provided by a supplier 
if provided under arrangements for an inpatient. The A/B MAC 
(8) is responsible for processing claims from suppliers; i.e.,
those entities that are not owned and operated by a provider.
See section 10.2 below for further clarification of the definition
of Providers and Suppliers of ambulance services.
Effective December 21, 2000, ambulance services furnished 
by a CAH or an entity that is owned and operated by a CAH 
are paid on a reasonable cost basis, but only if the CAH or 
entity is the only provider or supplier of ambulance services 
located within a 35-mile drive of such CAH or entity. Beginning 
February 24, 1999, ambulance transports to or from a non­
hospital-based dialysis facility, origin and destination modifier 
"J," satisfy the program's origin and destination requirements 
for coverage. 
Ambulance supplier services furnished under arrangements 
with a provider, e.g., hospital or SNF are typically not billed 
by the supplier to its A/B MAC (B), but are billed by the 
provider to its A/8 MAC (A). The A/8 MAC (A) is responsible 
for determining whether the conditions described below are 
met. In cases where all or part of the ambulance services 
are billed to the A/8 MAC (8), the A/8 MAC (B) has this 
responsibility, and the A/B MAC (A) shall contact the A/8 MAC 
(B) to ascertain whether it has already determined if the crew
and ambulance requirements are met. In such a situation, the
A/8 MAC (A) should accept the A/8 MAC (B)'s determination
without pursuing its own investigation.
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Where a provider furnishes ambulance services under 
arrangements with a supplier of ambulance services, such 
services can be covered only if the supplier's vehicles and 
crew meet the certification requirements applicable for 
independent ambulance suppliers. 
Effective January 1, 2006, items and services which include 
but are not limited to oxygen, drugs, extra attendants, supplies, 
EKG, and night differential are no longer paid separately 
for ambulance services. This occurred when CMS fully 
implemented the Ambulance Fee Schedule, and therefore, 
payment is based solely on the ambulance fee schedule. 
Effective for claims on or after October 1, 2007, if ambulance 
claims submitted with a code(s) that is/are not separately 
billable the payment for the code(s) is included in the base 
rate. 
Contractors shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when rejecting/denying 
claims under this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is 
compliant with CAQH CORE Business Scenario Four. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 97 
RARC: N390 
MSN: 1.6 
This is true whether the primary transportation service is 
allowed or denied. When the service is denied, the services 
are not separately billable to the beneficiaries as they are 
already part of the base rate. 
Payment for ambulance services may be made only on an 
assignment related basis. 
Prospective payment systems, including the Ambulance 
Fee Schedule, are exempt from Inherent Reasonableness 
provisions. 
100-4, Chapter-15, 20.1.4
Components of the Ambulance Fee Schedule 
The mileage rates provided in this section are the base rates 
that are adjusted by the yearly ambulance inflation factor (AIF). 
The payment amount under the fee schedule is determined as 
follows: 
For ground ambulance services, the fee schedule 
amount includes: 
1. A money amount that serves as a nationally uniform
base rate, called a "conversion factor" (CF), for all 
ground ambulance services;
2.
A relative value unit (RVU) assigned to each type of
ground ambulance service;
3. A geographic adjustment factor (GAF) for each
ambulance fee schedule locality area (geographic
practice cost index (GPCI));
4. A nationally uniform loaded mileage rate;
5. An additional amount for certain mileage for a rural
point-of-pickup; and
6. For specified temporary periods, certain additional
payment amounts as described in section 20.1 .4A,
below.
For air ambulance services, the fee schedule amount 
includes: 
1.
A nationally uniform base rate for fixed wing and a
nationally uniform base rate for rotary wing;
713 
2.
A geographic adjustment factor (GAF) for each 
ambulance fee schedule locality area (GPCI};
3.
A nationally uniform loaded mileage rate for each type
of air service; and
4. A rural adjustment to the base rate and mileage for
services furnished for a rural point-of-pickup
A. Ground Ambulance Services
1. Conversion Factor
The conversion factor (CF) is a money amount used to 
develop a base rate for each category of ground ambulance 
service. The CF is updated annually by the ambulance inflation 
factor and for other reasons as necessary. 
2. Relative Value Units
Relative value units (RVUs) set a numeric value for ambulance 
services relative to the value of a base level ambulance 
service. Since there are marked differences in resources 
necessary to furnish the various levels of ground ambulance 
services, different levels of payment are appropriate for the 
various levels of service. The different payment amounts are 
based on level of service. An RVU expresses the constant 
multiplier for a particular type of service (including, where 
appropriate, an emergency response). An RVU of 1.00 is 
assigned to the BLS of ground service, e.g., BLS has an RVU 
of 1; higher RVU values are assigned to the other types of 
ground ambulance services, which require more service than 
BLS. 
The RVUs are as follows: 
Service Level 
RVU 
BLS 
1.00 
BLS - Emergency 
1.60 
ALS1 
1.20 
ALS 1- Emergency 
1.90 
ALS2 
2.75 
SCT 
3.25 
Pl 
1.75 
3. Geographic Adjustment Factor (GAF)
The GAF is one of two factors intended to address regional 
differences in the cost of furnishing ambulance services. 
The GAF for the ambulance FS uses the non-facility practice 
expense (PE) of the geographic practice cost index (GPCI) 
of the Medicare physician fee schedule to adjust payment to 
account for regional differences. Thus, the geographic areas 
applicable to the ambulance FS are the same as those used 
for the physician fee schedule. 
The location where the beneficiary was put into the ambulance 
(POP) establishes which GPCI applies. For multiple vehicle 
transports, each leg of the transport is separately evaluated for 
the applicable GPCI. Thus, for the second (or any subsequent) 
leg of a transport, the POP establishes the applicable GPCI for 
that portion of the ambulance transport. 
For ground ambulance services, the applicable GPCI is 
multiplied by 70 percent of the base rate. Again, the base rate 
for each category of ground ambulance services is the CF 
multiplied by the applicable RVU. The GPCI is not applied to 
the ground mileage rate. 
4. Mileage
In the context of all payment instructions, the term "mileage" 
refers to loaded mileage. The ambulance FS provides a 
714 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
separate payment amount for mileage. The mileage rate per 
statute mile applies for all types of ground ambulance services, 
except Paramedic Intercept, and is provided to all Medicare 
contractors electronically by CMS as part of the ambulance 
FS. Providers and suppliers must report all medically 
necessary mileage, including the mileage subject to a rural 
adjustment, in a single line item. 
5. Adjustment for Certain Ground Mileage for Rural
Points of Pickup (POP)
The payment rate is greater for certain mileage where the POP 
is in a rural area to account for the higher costs per ambulance 
trip that are typical of rural operations where fewer trips are 
made in any given period. 
If the POP is a rural ZIP Code, the following calculations 
should be used to determine the rural adjustment portion 
of the payment allowance. For loaded miles 1-17, the rural 
adjustment for ground mileage is 1.5 times the rural mileage 
allowance. 
For services furnished during the period July 1, 2004 through 
December 31, 2008, a 25 percent increase is applied to the 
appropriate ambulance FS mileage rate to each mile of a 
transport (both urban and rural POP) that exceeds 50 miles 
(i.e., mile 51 and greater). 
The following chart summarizes the above information: 
Service 
Dates of Service 
Bonus 
Calculation 
Loaded miles 1-17, 
Beginning 4/1 /02 
50% 
FS Rural mileage 
Rural POP 
* 1.5
Loaded miles 18-50, 
4/1/02-12/31/03 
25% 
FS Rural mileage 
Rural POP 
* 1.25 
All loaded miles 
7/1/04-12/31/08 
25% 
FS Urban or 
(Urban or Rural POP) 
Rural mileage 
51+ 
* 1.25 
The POP, as identified by ZIP Code, establishes whether 
a rural adjustment applies to a particular service. Each 
leg of a multi-leg transport is separately evaluated for a 
rural adjustment application. Thus, for the second (or any 
subsequent) leg of a transport, the ZIP Code of the POP 
establishes whether a rural adjustment applies to such second 
( or subsequent) transport. 
For the purpose of all categories of ground ambulance 
services except paramedic intercept, a rural area is defined 
as a U.S. Postal Service (USPS) ZIP Code that is located, in 
whole or in part, outside of either a Metropolitan Statistical 
Area (MSA) or in New England, a New England County 
Metropolitan Area (NECMA), or is an area wholly within 
an MSA or NECMA that has been identified as rural under 
the "Goldsmith modification." (The Goldsmith modification 
establishes an operational definition of rural areas within 
large counties that contain one or more metropolitan areas. 
The Goldsmith areas are so isolated by distance or physical 
features that they are more rural than urban in character and 
lack easy geographic access to health services.) 
For Paramedic Intercept, an area is a rural area if: 
•
It is designated as a rural area by any law or regulation
of a State;
It is located outside of an MSA or NECMA; or
It is located in a rural census tract of an MSA as
determined under the most recent Goldsmith
modification. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
See IOM Pub. 100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, 
chapter 10 -Ambulance Services, section 30.1.1 -Ground 
Ambulance Services for coverage requirements for the 
Paramedic Intercept benefit. Presently, only the State of New 
York meets these requirements. 
Although a transport with a POP located in a rural area is 
subject to a rural adjustment for mileage, Medicare still pays 
the lesser of the billed charge or the applicable FS amount for 
mileage. Thus, when rural mileage is involved, the contractor 
compares the calculated FS rural mileage payment rate to the 
provider's/supplier's actual charge for mileage and pays the 
lesser amount. 
The CMS furnishes the ambulance FS files to claims 
processing contractors electronically. A version of the 
Ambulance Fee Schedule is also posted to the CMS website 
(http://www.cms.hhs.gov/AmbulanceFeeSchedule/02_afspuf. 
asp) for public consumption. To clarify whether a particular ZIP 
Code is rural or urban, please refer to the most recent version 
of the Medicare supplied ZIP Code file. 
6. Regional Ambulance FS Payment Rate Floor for
Ground Ambulance Transports
For services furnished during the period July 1, 2004 through 
December 31, 2009, the base rate portion of the payment 
under the ambulance FS for ground ambulance transports is 
subject to a minimum amount. This minimum amount depends 
upon the area of the country in which the service is furnished. 
The country is divided into 9 census divisions and each of 
the census divisions has a regional FS that is constructed 
using the same methodology as the national FS. Where the 
regional FS is greater than the national FS, the base rates for 
ground ambulance transports are determined by a blend of 
the national rate and the regional rate in accordance with the 
following schedule: 
Year 
National FS 
Regional FS 
Percentage 
Percentage 
711104-12/31/04 
20% 
80% 
CY2005 
40% 
60% 
CY2006 
60% 
40% 
CY 2007 - CY 2009 
80% 
20% 
CY 2010 and thereafter 
100% 
0% 
Where the regional FS is not greater than the national FS, 
there is no blending and only the national FS applies. Note 
that this provision affects only the FS portion of the blended 
transition payment rate. This floor amount is calculated by 
CMS centrally and is incorporated into the FS amount that 
appears in the FS file maintained by CMS and downloaded 
by CMS contractors. There is no calculation to be done by 
the Medicare B/MAC or A/MAC in order to implement this 
provision. 
7. Adjustments for FS Payment Rate for Certain Rural
Ground Ambulance Transports
For services furnished during the period July 1, 2004 through 
December 31, 2010, the base rate portion of the payment 
under the FS for ground ambulance transports furnished 
in certain rural areas is increased by a percentage amount 
determined by CMS. Section 3105 (c) and 10311 (c) of the 
Affordable Care Act amended section 1834 (1) (13) (A) of the 
Act to extend this rural bonus for an additional year through 
December 31, 2010. This increase applies if the POP is in 
a rural county (or Goldsmith area) that is comprised by the 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
lowest quartile by population of all such rural areas arrayed 
by population density. CMS will determine this bonus amount 
and the designated POP rural ZIP Codes in which the bonus 
applies. Beginning on July 1, 2004, rural areas qualifying 
for the additional bonus amount will be identified with a "B" 
indicator on the national ZIP Code file. Contractors must 
apply the additional rural bonus amount as a multiplier to the 
base rate portion of the FS payment for all ground transports 
originating in the designated POP ZIP Codes. 
Subsequently, section of 106 (c) of the MMEA again amended 
section 1843 (I) ( 13) (A) of the Act to extend the rural bonus an 
additional year, through December 31, 2011. 
8. Adjustments for FS Payment Rates for Ground
Ambulance Transports
The payment rates under the FS for ground ambulance 
transports (both the fee schedule base rates and the mileage 
amounts) are increased for services furnished during the 
period July 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006 as well 
as July 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010. For ground 
ambulance transport services furnished where the POP is 
urban, the rates are increased by 1 percent for claims with 
dates of service July 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006 in 
accordance with Section 414 of the Medicare Modernization 
Act (MMA) of 2004 and by 2 percent for claims with dates 
of service July 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010 in 
accordance with Section 146(a) of the Medicare Improvements 
for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 and Sections 3105(a) 
and 10311 (a) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
Act (ACA) of 2010. For ground ambulance transport services 
furnished where the POP is rural, the rates are increased 
by 2 percent for claims with dates of service July 1, 2004 
through December 31, 2006 in accordance with Section 414 
of the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) of 2004 and by 
3 percent for claims with dates of service July 1, 2008 through 
December 31, 2010 in accordance with Section 146(a) of the 
Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 
and Sections 3105(a) and 10311 (a) of the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act (ACA) of 2010. Subsequently, section 
106 (a) of the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 
(MMEA) again amended section 1834 (1) (12) (A) of the Act to 
extend the payment increases for an additional year, through 
December 31, 2011. These amounts are incorporated into the 
fee schedule amounts that appear in the Ambulance FS file 
maintained by CMS and downloaded by CMS contractors. 
There is no calculation to be done by the Medicare carrier or 
intermediary in order to implement this provision. 
The following chart summarizes the Medicare Prescription 
Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (MMA) of 2003 
payment changes for ground ambulance services that became 
effective on July 1, 2004 as well as the Medicare Improvement 
for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) of 2008 changes that 
became effective July 1, 2008 and were extended by the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 201 O and the 
Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 (MMEA). 
715 
Summary Chart of Additional Payments for Ground 
Ambulance Services Provided by MMA, MIPPA and MMEA 
Service 
Effective Oates 
Payment 
Increase* 
All rural miles 
7/1/04 -12/31/06 
2% 
All rural miles 
7/1/08-12/31/11 
3% 
Rural miles 51+ 
7/1/04 -12/31/08 
25% •• 
All urban miles 
7/1/04-12/31/06 
1% 
All urban miles 
7/1/08-12/31/11 
2% 
Urban miles 51+ 
7/1/04 -12/31/08 
25% •• 
All rural base rates 
7/1/04-12/31/06 
2% 
All rural base rates 
7/1/08-12/31/11 
3% 
Rural base rates (lowest quartile) 
7/1/04 -12/31/11 
22.6 %" 
All urban base rates 
7/1/04-12/31/06 
1% 
All urban base rates 
7/1/08-12/31/11 
2% 
All base rates (regional fee schedule 
7/1/04-12/31/09 
Floor 
blend) 
NOTES: *All payments are percentage increases and all are 
cumulative. 
**Contractor systems perform this calculation. All other 
increases are incorporated into the CMS Medicare Ambulance 
FS file. 
B. Air Ambulance Services
1. Base Rates
Each type of air ambulance service has a base rate. There 
is no conversion factor (CF) applicable to air ambulance 
services. 
2. Geographic Adjustment Factor (GAF)
The GAF, as described above for ground ambulance services, 
is also used for air ambulance services. However, for air 
ambulance services, the applicable GPCI is applied to 
50 percent of each of the base rates (fixed and rotary wing). 
3. Mileage
The FS for air ambulance services provides a separate 
payment for mileage. 
4. Adjustment for Services Furnished in Rural Areas
The payment rates for air ambulance services where the POP 
is in a rural area are greater than in an urban area. For air 
ambulance services (fixed or rotary wing), the rural adjustment 
is an increase of 50 percent to the unadjusted FS amount, 
e.g., the applicable air service base rate multiplied by the GAF
plus the mileage amount or, in other words, 1 .5 times both the
applicable air service base rate and the total mileage amount.
The basis for a rural adjustment for air ambulance services is 
determined in the same manner as for ground services. That 
is, whether the POP is within a rural ZIP Code as described 
above for ground services. 
100-4, Chapter-15, 20.2
Payment for Mileage Charges 
Charges for mileage must be based on loaded mileage 
only, e.g., from the pickup of a patient to his/her arrival at 
destination. It is presumed that all unloaded mileage costs 
are taken into account when a supplier establishes his 
716 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
basic charge for ambulance services and his rate for loaded 
mileage. Suppliers should be notified that separate charges for 
unloaded mileage will be denied. 
Instructions on billing mileage are found in §30. 
100-4, Chapter-15, 20.3
Air Ambulance 
Refer to IOM Pub. 100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, 
chapter 1 O -Ambulance Services, section 10.4 -Air Ambulance 
Services, for additional information on the coverage of 
air ambulance services. Under certain circumstances, 
transportation by airplane or helicopter may qualify as covered 
ambulance services. If the conditions of coverage are met, 
payment may be made for the air ambulance services. 
Air ambulance services are paid at different rates according to 
two air ambulance categories: 
AIR ambulance service, conventional air services, 
transport, one way, fixed wing (FW) (HCPCS code 
A0430) 
•
AIR ambulance service, conventional air services,
transport, one way, rotary wing(RW) (HCPCS code
A0431)
Covered air ambulance mileage services are paid when the 
appropriate HCPCS code is reported on the claim: 
HCPCS code A0435 identifies FIXED WING AIR 
MILEAGE 
HCPCS code A0436 identifies ROTARY WING AIR 
MILEAGE 
Air mileage must be reported in whole numbers of loaded 
statute miles flown. Contractors must ensure that the 
appropriate air transport code is used with the appropriate 
mileage code. 
Air ambulance services may be paid only for ambulance 
services to a hospital. Other destinations e.g., skilled nursing 
facility, a physician's office, or a patient's home may not be 
paid air ambulance. The destination is identified by the use 
of an appropriate modifier As defined in Section 30(A) of this 
chapter. 
Claims for air transports may account for all mileage from 
the point of pickup, including where applicable: ramp to 
taxiway, taxiway to runway, takeoff run, air miles, roll out upon 
landing, and taxiing after landing. Additional air mileage may 
be allowed by the contractor in situations where additional 
mileage is incurred, due to circumstances beyond the pilot's 
control. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, 
the following: 
Military base and other restricted zones, air-defense 
zones, and similar FAA restrictions and prohibitions; 
Hazardous weather; or 
•
Variances in departure patterns and clearance routes
required by an air traffic controller.
If the air transport meets the criteria for medical necessity, 
Medicare pays the actual miles flown for legitimate reasons 
as determined by the Medicare contractor, once the Medicare 
beneficiary is loaded onto the air ambulance. 
IOM Pub. 100-08, Medicare Program Integrity Manual, chapter 
6 -Intermediary MR Guidelines for Specific Services contains 
instructions for Medical Review of Air Ambulance Services. 
CPT" is a registered trademark af the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-15, 20.6
Payment for Non-Emergency Trips to/from ESRD 
Facilities 
Section 637 of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 
requires that, effective for transports occurring on and after 
October 1, 2013, fee schedule payments for non-emergency 
basic life support (BLS) transports of individuals with end­
stage renal disease (ESRD) to and from renal dialysis 
treatment be reduced by 10%. The payment reduction affects 
transports (base rate and mileage) to and from hospital-
based and freestanding renal dialysis treatment facilities for 
dialysis services provided on a non-emergency basis. Non­
emergency BLS ground transports are identified by Healthcare 
Common Procedure Code System (HCPCS) code A0428. 
Ambulance transports to and from renal dialysis treatment are 
identified by modifier codes "G" (hospital-based ESRD) and "J" 
(freestanding ESRD facility) in either the first position (origin 
code) or second position (destination code) within the two­
digit ambulance modifier. (See Section 30 (A) for information 
regarding modifiers specific to ambulance.) 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after October 
1, 2013, the 10% reduction will be calculated and applied to 
HCPCS code A0428 when billed with modifier code "G" or 
"J". The reduction will also be applied to any mileage billed in 
association with a non-emergency transport of a beneficiary 
with ESRD to and from renal dialysis treatment. BLS mileage 
is identified by HCPCS code A0425. 
The 10% reduction will be taken after calculation of the normal 
fee schedule payment amount, including any add-on or bonus 
payments, and will apply to transports in rural and urban areas 
as well as areas designated as "super rural". 
Payment for emergency transports is not affected by this 
reduction. Payment for non-emergency BLS transports to other 
destinations is also not affected. This reduction does not affect 
or change the Ambulance Fee Schedule. 
NOTE: The 10% reduction applies to beneficiaries with ESRD 
that are receiving non-emergency BLS transport to and from 
renal dialysis treatment. While ii is possible that a beneficiary 
who is not diagnosed with ESRD will require routine transport 
to and from renal dialysis treatment, it is highly unlikely. 
However, contractors have discretion to override or reverse 
the reduction on appeal if they deem it appropriate based on 
supporting documentation. 
Section 53108 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 increased 
the amount of the reduction described above to 23% for 
transports occurring on and after October 1, 2018. 
100-4, Chapter-15, 30.1.2
Coding Instructions for Paper and Electronic 
Claim Forms 
The term Medicare beneficiary identifier (Mbi) is a general 
term describing a beneficiary's Medicare identification number. 
For purposes of this manual, Medicare beneficiary identifier 
references both the Health Insurance Claim Number (HICN) 
and the Medicare Beneficiary Identifier (MBI) during the new 
Medicare card transition period and after for certain business 
areas that will continue to use the HICN as part of their 
processes. 
Except as otherwise noted, beginning with dates of service on 
or after January 1, 2001, the following coding instructions must 
be used. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Origin 
Electronic billers should refer to the Implementation Guide 
to determine how to report the origin information (e.g., 
the ZIP Code of the point of pickup). Beginning with the 
early implementation of version 5010 of the ASC X12 837 
professional claim format on January 1 , 2011, electronic billers 
are required to submit, in addition to the loaded ambulance 
trip's origin information (e.g., the ZIP Code of the point of 
pickup), the loaded ambulance trip's destination information 
(e.g., the ZIP code of the point of drop-off). Refer to the 
appropriate Implementation Guide to determine how to report 
the destination information. Only the ZIP Code of the point 
of pickup will be used to adjudicate and price the ambulance 
claim, not the point of drop-off. However, the point of drop-off 
is an additional reporting requirement on version 5010 of the 
ASC X12 837 professional claim format. 
Where the CMS-1500 Form is used the ZIP code is reported 
in item 23. Since the ZIP Code is used for pricing, more than 
one ambulance service may be reported on the same paper 
claim for a beneficiary if all points of pickup have the same ZIP 
Code. Suppliers must prepare a separate paper claim for each 
trip if the points of pickup are located in different ZIP Codes. 
Claims without a ZIP Code in item 23 on the CMS-1500 
Form item 23, or with multiple ZIP Codes in item 23, must be 
returned as unprocessable. 
The contractor shall use the following remittance advice 
messages and associated codes when rejecting/denying 
claims under this policy. This CARC/RARC combination is 
compliant with CAQH CORE Business Scenario Two. 
Group Code: CO 
CARC: 16 
RARC: N53 
MSN: N/A 
ZIP Codes must be edited for validity. 
The format for a ZIP Code is five numerics. If a nine-digit ZIP 
Code is submitted, the last four digits are ignored. If the data 
submitted in the required field does not match that format, the 
claim is rejected. 
Mileage 
Generally, each ambulance trip will require two lines of coding, 
e.g., one line for the service and one line for the mileage.
Suppliers who do not bill mileage would have one line of code
for the service.
Beginning with dates of service on or after January 1, 2011, 
mileage billed must be reported as fractional units in the 
following situations: 
•
Where billing is by ASC X12 claims transaction
(professional or institutional), and
•
Where billing is by CMS-1500 paper form.
Electronic billers should see the appropriate Implementation 
Guide to determine where to report the fractional units. Item 
24G of the Form CMS-1500 paper claim is used. 
Fractional units are not required on Form CMS-1450. 
For trips totaling up to 100 covered miles suppliers must 
round the total miles up to the nearest tenth of a mile and 
report the resulting number with the appropriate HCPCS code 
for ambulance mileage. The decimal must be used in the 
appropriate place (e.g., 99.9). 
717 
For trips totaling up to 100 covered miles and greater, 
suppliers must report mileage rounded up to the next whole 
number mile without the use of a decimal (e.g., 998.5 miles 
should be reported as 999). 
For trips totaling less than 1 mile, enter a "O" before the 
decimal (e.g., 0.9). 
For mileage HCPCS billed on the ASC X12 837 professional 
transaction or the CMS-1500 paper form only, contractors shall 
automatically default to "0.1" units when the total mileage units 
are missing. 
Multiple Patients on One Trip 
Ambulance suppliers submitting a claim using the ASC 
X 12 professional format or the CMS 1500 paper form for an 
ambulance transport with more than one patient onboard must 
use the "GM" modifier ("Multiple Patients on One Ambulance 
Trip") for each service line item. In addition, suppliers are 
required to submit documentation to NB MACs (Part B) to 
specify the particulars of a multiple patient transport. The 
documentation must include the total number of patients 
transported in the vehicle at the same time and the Medicare 
beneficiary identifiers for each Medicare beneficiary. NB/MACs 
(Part B) shall calculate payment amounts based on policy 
instructions found in Pub.100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy 
Manual, Chapter 10 - Ambulance Services, Section 10.3.10 -
Multiple Patient Ambulance Transport. 
Ambulance claims submitted on or after January 1, 2011 , in 
version 5010 of the ASC X12 837 professional claim format 
require the presence of a diagnosis code and the absence 
of diagnosis code will cause the ambulance claim to not be 
accepted into the claims processing system. The presence of 
a diagnosis code on an ambulance claim is not required as 
a condition of ambulance payment policy. The adjudicative 
process does not take into account the presence (or absence) 
of a diagnosis code, but a diagnosis code is required on the 
ASC X12 837 professional claim format. 
100-4, Chapter-15, 30.2.4
Non-covered Charges on Institutional Ambulance 
Claims 
Medicare law contains a restriction that miles beyond the 
closest available facility cannot be billed to Medicare. 
Non-covered miles beyond the closest facility are billed with 
HCPCS procedure code A0888 ("non-covered ambulance 
mileage per mile, e.g., for miles traveled beyond the closest 
appropriate facility"). These non-covered line items can be 
billed on claims also containing covered charges. Ambulance 
claims may use the -GY modifier on line items for such non­
covered mileage, and liability for the service will be assigned 
correctly to the beneficiary. 
The method of billing all miles for the same trip, with covered 
and non-covered portions, on the same claim is preferable 
in this scenario. However, billing the non-covered mileage 
using condition code 21 claims is also permitted, if desired, 
as long as all line items on the claims are non-covered and 
the beneficiary is liable. Additionally, unless requested by the 
beneficiary or required by specific Medicare policy, services 
excluded by statute do not have to be billed to Medicare. 
When the scenario is point of pick up outside the United 
States, including U.S. territories but excepting some points in 
Canada and Mexico in some cases, mileage is also statutorily 
excluded from Medicare coverage. Such billings are more 
718 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
likely to be submitted on entirely non-covered claims using 
condition code 21. This scenario requires the use of a different 
message on the Medicare Summary Notice (MSN) sent to 
beneficiaries. 
Another scenario in which billing non-covered mileage to 
Medicare may occur is when the beneficiary dies after the 
ambulance has been called but before the ambulance arrives. 
The -QL modifier should be used on the base rate line in this 
scenario, in place of origin and destination modifiers, and 
the line is submitted with covered charges. The -QL modifier 
should also be used on the accompanying mileage line, if 
submitted, with non-covered charges. Submitting this non­
covered mileage line is optional for providers. 
Non-covered charges may also apply is if there is a subsidy 
of mileage charges that are never charged to Medicare. 
Because there are no charges for Medicare to share in, the 
only billing option is to submit non-covered charges, if the 
provider bills Medicare at all (it is not required in such cases). 
These non-covered charges are unallowable, and should not 
be considered in settlement of cost reports. However, there 
is a difference in billing if such charges are subsidized, but 
otherwise would normally be charged to Medicare as the 
primary payer. In this latter case, CMS examination of existing 
rules relating to grants policy since October 1983, supported 
by Federal regulations (42CFR 405.423), generally requires 
providers to reduce their costs by the amount of grants and 
gifts restricted to pay for such costs. Thereafter, section 
405.423 was deleted from the regulations. 
Thus, providers were no longer required to reduce their costs 
for restricted grants and gifts, and charges tied to such grants/ 
gifts/subsidies should be submitted as covered charges. This 
is in keeping with Congress's intent to encourage hospital 
philanthropy, allowing the provider receiving the subsidy to use 
it, and also requiring Medicare to share in the unreduced cost. 
Treatment of subsidized charges as non-covered Medicare 
charges serves to reduce Medicare payment on the Medicare 
cost report contrary to the 1983 change in policy. 
Medicare requires the use of the -TQ modifier so that CMS 
can track the instances of the subsidy scenario for non­
covered charges. The -TQ should be used whether the 
subsidizing entity is governmental or voluntary. The -TQ 
modifier is not required in the case of covered charges 
submitted when a subsidy has been made, but charges are 
still normally made to Medicare as the primary payer. 
If providers believe they have been significantly or materially 
penalized in the past by the failure of their cost reports to 
consider covered charges occurring in the subsidy case, 
since Medicare had previous billing instructions that stated 
all charges in the case of a subsidy, not just charges when 
the entity providing the subsidy never charges another entity/ 
primary payer, should be submitted as non-covered charges, 
they may contact their Fl about reopening the reports in 
question for which the time period in 42 CFR 405.1885 has not 
expired. Fis have the discretion to determine if the amount in 
question warrants reopening. The CMS does not expect many 
such cases to occur. 
Billing requirements for all these situations, including the use 
of modifiers, are presented in the chart below: 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Mileage Scenario 
HCPCS 
Modifiers• 
Liability 
Billing 
Remit. 
MSN Message 
Requirements 
STATUTE: Miles 
A0888 on line item 
-QM or -QN, origin/ 
Beneficiary 
Bill mileage line item 
Group code PR, 
16.1 O "Medicare 
beyond closest 
for the non-covered 
destination modifier, 
facility, OR ''Pick up 
mileage 
and -GY unless
point outside of U.S. 
condition code 21 
claim used
Beneficiary dies after Most appropriate 
-QL unless condition 
Provider 
ambulance is called 
ambulance HCPCS 
code -21 claim 
mileage code (i.e., 
ground, air) 
Subsidy or 
A0888 on line item 
-QM or -QN, origin/ 
Provider 
government owned 
for the non-covered 
destination modifier, 
Ambulance, 
mileage 
and -TQ must be 
Medicare NEVER 
used for policy 
billed'" 
purposes
*Current ambulance billing requirements state that either
the -QM or -QN modifier must be used on services. The -
QM is used when the "ambulance service is provided under
arrangement by a provider of services," and the -QN when
the "ambulance service is provided directly by a provider of 
services." Line items using either the -QM or-QN modifiers
are not subject to the FISS edit associated with FISS
reason code 31322 so that these lines items will process
to completion. Origin/destination modifiers, also required
by current instruction, combine two alpha characters: one
for origin, one for destination, and are not non-covered by
definition. 
** This is the one scenario where the base rate is not paid 
in addition to mileage, and there are certain exceptions in 
Canada and Mexico where mileage is covered as described in 
existing ambulance instructions. 
***If Medicare would normally have been billed, submit mileage 
charges as covered charges despite subsidies. 
Medicare systems may return claims to the provider if they do 
not comply with the requirements in the table. 
100-4, Chapter-15, 40
Medical Conditions List and Instructions 
See http://www.cms.gov/Center/Provider-Type/Ambulances­
Services-Center.html for a medical conditions list and 
instructions to assist ambulance providers and suppliers to 
communicate the patient's condition to Medicare contractors, 
as reported by the dispatch center and as observed by the 
ambulance crew. Use of the medical conditions list does not 
guarantee payment of the claim or payment for a certain level 
of service. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
with A0888 -GY and 
reason code 96 
does not pay for this 
other modifiers as 
item or service"; OR, 
needed to establish 
"Medicare no paga por 
liability, line item will be 
este articulo o servicio" 
denied; OR bill service 
on condition code 21 
claim, no -GY required, 
claim will be denied 
Bill mileage line item 
Group Code CO, 
16.58 "The provider 
with -QL as non-
reason code 96 
billed this charge as 
covered, line item will 
non-covered. You 
be denied 
do not have to pay 
this amount."; OR, 
"El proveedor facur6 
este cargo como no 
cubierto. Usted no 
tiene que pagar ests 
cantidad." 
Bill mileage line item 
Group Code CO, 
16.58 "The provider 
with A0888, and 
reason code 96 
billed this charge as 
modifiers as non-
non-covered. You 
covered, line item will 
do not have to pay 
be denied 
this amount."; OR, 
"El proveedor facur6 
este cargo coma no 
cubierto. Usted no 
tiene que pagar ests 
cantidad." 
In addition to reporting one of the medical conditions on the 
claim, one of the transportation indicators may be included 
on the claim to indicate why it was necessary for the patient 
to be transported in a particular way or circumstance. The 
provider or supplier will place the transportation indicator in the 
"narrative" field on the claim. Information on the appropriate 
use of transportation indicators is also available at http://www. 
cms.gov/Center/ProviderType/Ambulances-Services-Center. 
html. 
100-4, Chapter-16, 60.1.4
Coding Requirements for Specimen Collection 
The following HCPCS codes and terminology must be used: 
36415 - Collection of venous blood by venipuncture. 
G04 71 - Collection of venous blood by venipuncture or 
urine sample by catheterization from an individual in a 
skilled nursing facility (SNF) or by a laboratory on behalf 
of a home health agency (HHA) 
•
P9615 - Catheterization for collection of specimen(s).
The allowed amount for specimen collection in each of the 
above circumstances is included in the laboratory fee schedule 
distributed annually by CMS. 
100-4, Chapter-16, 60.2
Travel Allowance 
Section 1833(h)(3)(8) of the Act states that the Secretary 
shall provide for and establish a fee in addition to the payment 
amounts for COL Ts on the CLFS to cover the transportation 
and personnel expenses for trained personnel to travel to the 
location of an individual to collect the sample. Travel Allowance 
719 
Eligibility CMS pays a travel allowance when the specimen 
collection fee is paid. Requirements regarding payment for 
specimen collection are described in Section 60.1 above and 
CFR § 414.523(a)(1 ). These requirements must be met for the 
travel allowance to be payable. 
Travel for simple pickup of specimens or for specimen 
collection that does not require the services of trained 
technicians should not be considered in the calculation of the 
travel allowance. This means that the travel allowance amount 
may be paid only if a specimen collection fee is also payable; 
for example, no travel allowance would be paid if a trained 
technician merely performs a messenger service to pick up a 
specimen drawn by other technicians. 
The travel allowance may be provided only with respect to an 
individual who is homebound or an inpatient in an inpatient 
facility (other than a hospital), such that travel allowance may 
only be paid when a trained technician draws a specimen 
from a patient who either is in an inpatient facility that is not a 
hospital or is a homebound patient. 
Only one travel allowance payment may be made for specimen 
collection for a Medicare beneficiary based on the beneficiary's 
location, and only when a Medicare beneficiary requires the 
collection of a specimen necessary for performance of CDL Ts. 
Only Medicare patients should be considered in the calculation 
and payment of the travel allowance, as the statutory language 
states "the location of an individual," that is, the location of a 
Medicare beneficiary receiving specimen collection services. 
NonMedicare patients should not be included in any portion of 
the calculation of the travel allowance. 
Travel Allowance Eligible Miles 
For the purposes of travel allowance for specimen collection, 
eligible miles are those miles traveled that may be included in 
the calculation to determine the travel allowance amount. 
Eligible miles begin at the laboratory or the starting point of the 
trained technician's travel for specimen collection and end at 
the laboratory or the ending point of the trained technician's 
travel for specimen collection. A trained technician's travel for 
specimen collection from Medicare beneficiaries may begin 
at a laboratory or at a location other than the laboratory. 
Therefore, eligible miles begin at the laboratory or the starting 
point of the trained technician's travel for specimen collection. 
Additionally, a trained technician's travel for specimen 
collection from Medicare beneficiaries may end at a laboratory 
or at a location other than the laboratory. Therefore, eligible 
miles end at the laboratory or the ending point of the trained 
technician's travel for specimen collection. 
Eligible miles do not include miles traveled for any purpose 
unrelated to specimen collection, such as collecting 
specimens from non-Medicare beneficiaries or for personal 
reasons. Therefore, any miles traveled to a location where 
no specimens are collected, such as to the location of a non­
Medicare beneficiary for specimen collection, to a Medicare 
beneficiary where no specimen collection occurs, or for 
personal purposes, are excluded from the calculation of 
eligible miles. 
Effective January 1, 2022, CMS has made permanent the 
option for laboratories to maintain electronic documentation of 
miles traveled for the purposes of covering the transportation 
and personnel expenses for trained technicians to travel to the 
location of an individual to collect a specimen sample. This 
option for laboratories to maintain electronic documentation 
applies to specimen collection for any COLT. Laboratories 
may utilize electronic and/or other documentation in order 
720 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
to demonstrate miles traveled for the purposes of specimen 
collection. Laboratories need to be able to produce electronic 
documentation in a form and manner that can be shared with 
MACs and should continue to consult with their local MACs 
regarding the format and process for submission of this 
information if necessary. 
Travel Allowance Mileage Rate 
The Act requires the travel allowance to cover both the 
"transportation" and "personnel expenses" for trained 
personnel to travel to the location of an individual to collect 
a sample. The travel allowance mileage rate reflects both of 
these components. 
The "transportation" component of the travel allowance 
mileage rate equals the IRS standard mileage rate. The IRS 
updates and issues standard mileage rates on a periodic 
basis, generally annually and are used to calculate the 
deductible costs of operating an automobile for business, 
charitable, medical, or moving for the purpose of calculating 
Federal taxes. 
The "personnel expenses" component of the travel allowance 
mileage rate where the trained technician's personnel 
expenses is based on a wages-per-mile amount. Effective 
January 1, 2023, CMS uses wage data in the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics BLSdefined category of phlebotomist to establish the 
personnel expense component of the travel allowance mileage 
rate. Specifically, CMS uses the latest available published 
figure for the median hourly wage amount for phlebotomists, 
which is published by the BLS, for the purposes of annually 
updating the travel allowance amount for specimen collection. 
CMS calculates a per-mile amount to derive the approximate 
number of miles traveled by the trained technician each hour 
by using an average driving speed. The average miles per­
hour driving speed is multiplied by the trained technician's 
estimated wages, as described above, and the result would 
be an amount that represents wages per mile, which is the 
personnel expenses associated with travel for specimen 
collection. CMS uses an average driving speed of 40 miles per 
hour, as most of the travel related to specimen collection would 
be performed in local and residential areas. 
To establish the personnel expenses component of the travel 
allowance mileage rate, which is a per-mile amount, CMS 
divides the most recent median hourly wage for phlebotomists, 
as published by the BLS, by 40, to represent an average 
miles-per-hour. 
The total travel allowance mileage rate, which includes 
both the "transportation" and "personnel expenses" for 
trained personnel to travel to the location of an individual to 
collect a sample, is equal to the IRS standard mileage rate 
plus an amount to cover expenses for a trained technician 
which is equal to the most recent median hourly wage for 
phlebotomists, as published by the BLS, divided by 40 to 
represent an average miles per-hour driving speed. 
Updates to the Travel Allowance Mileage Rate 
Updates to the travel allowance mileage rate are issued 
through subregulatory guidance, specifically the existing CMS 
change request process, on an annual basis. Updates will be 
made to the travel allowance mileage rate based upon the 
most recently published IRS standard mileage rate, as well 
as the most recently published wage rate for phlebotomist as 
published by the BLS. The revised travel allowance mileage 
rate will be effective for the January update of the clinical 
laboratory fee schedule file. 
The travel allowance mileage rate for CY2023 is $1.11 : 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
The IRS standard mileage rate, which is $0.655; plus, 
The most recent median hourly wage for phlebotomists, 
as published by the BLS, which is $17.97, divided by 40 
to represent an average miles-per-hour driving speed, 
which is $0.45. 
•
Yielding a total travel allowance mileage rate for CY 2023
of $1.105, rounded up to $1.11.
Travel Allowance Bases: 
The Flat-Rate and Per-Mile CMS pays a travel allowance on 
the following bases: (1) flat-rate travel allowance; and (2) per­
mile travel allowance. Flat-Rate Travel Allowance The flat-rate 
travel allowance basis applies when the trained technician 
travels 20 eligible miles or less to and from one location for 
specimen collection from one or more Medicare beneficiaries. 
Laboratories bill Medicare using HCPCS code P9604 to 
receive payment for the flat-rate travel allowance amount, 
prorated by the number of beneficiaries for whom a specimen 
collection fee is paid. 
Per-Mile Travel Allowance 
The per-mile travel allowance basis applies in two 
circumstances: 
1) When the round-trip travel to one location is greater than
20 eligible miles for specimen collection from one or more
beneficiaries; or,
2) When travel is to more than one location, regardless of the
number of miles traveled.
Laboratories bill Medicare using HCPCS code P9603 to 
receive payment for the per mile travel allowance amount, 
prorated by the number of beneficiaries for whom a specimen 
collection fee is paid. 
Travel Allowance Amount Calculation 
Calculation: Flat-rate Travel Allowance Basis 
For flat-rate travel allowance basis, the travel allowance 
amount calculation is the travel allowance mileage rate 
multiplied by ten (10) and divided by the number of 
beneficiaries for whom a specimen collection fee is paid. 
Dividing by the number of beneficiaries for whom a specimen 
collection fee is paid ensures that the flat-rate travel allowance 
amount is apportioned to each beneficiary receiving specimen 
collection services and that payment is calculated in an 
operationally feasible manner, as a laboratory must submit 
a claim for each beneficiary to receive payment for travel 
allowance. This method allows for a fixed payment amount to 
be straightforwardly apportioned to the number of beneficiaries 
for whom a specimen collection fee is paid in a single location. 
Example: Flat-rate Travel Allowance Calculation 
For an example of the flat-rate travel allowance calculation, 
consider a situation in which a trained technician travels 
7 miles from the laboratory to a nursing home to collect blood 
specimens collected through venipuncture from five patients, 
four of whom are Medicare beneficiaries. 
The trained technician collects three specimens from Medicare 
beneficiaries, collects one specimen from the non-Medicare 
patient, and simply picks up a previously collected specimen 
from one Medicare beneficiary. The trained technician then 
drives 7 miles back to the laboratory to deliver the specimens 
without making any other stops. The trained technician has 
provided specimen collection services to three Medicare 
beneficiaries. One Medicare beneficiary did not require 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
specimen collection services, and therefore, a specimen 
collection fee would not be payable. 
In this example, the laboratory would use the flat-rate travel 
allowance basis because the trained technician traveled a total 
of 14 miles. To calculate the travel allowance mileage rate, the 
laboratory would divide flat-rate travel allowance amount of 
$11 .10 by the number of beneficiaries for whom a specimen 
collection fee is paid (three beneficiaries), which equals $3.70. 
To bill for the travel allowance, the laboratory would submit one 
claim for each beneficiary for whom a specimen collection fee 
is paid by billing HCPCS code P9604. 
Calculation: Per-mile Travel Allowance Basis 
The calculation for the per-mile travel allowance amount is 
equal the number of eligible miles multiplied by the travel 
allowance mileage rate, divided by the number of beneficiaries 
for whom a specimen collection fee is paid. 
To calculate the per-mile travel allowance amount, the 
laboratory would first calculate the total number of eligible 
miles that the trained technician traveled - this would be the 
total number of miles traveled by the trained technician to 
locations where one or more Medicare beneficiaries received 
specimen collection services and back to the laboratory where 
the technician returns the specimen(s) for testing. 
The eligible miles would be multiplied by the travel allowance 
mileage rate as described above, then divided by the number 
of beneficiaries for whom a specimen collection fee is paid. 
This quotient yields a prorated travel allowance amount for 
each beneficiary. The laboratory receives payment for the 
total number of eligible miles traveled for specimen collection, 
apportioned equally to each Medicare beneficiary for whom a 
specimen collection fee is paid. The laboratory then submits 
a claim billing HCPCS code P9603 for payment of the per­
mile travel allowance amount for each beneficiary for whom a 
specimen collection fee is paid. 
Examples: Per-mile Travel Allowance Amount 
Calculation 
Example 1: For an example of the per-mile travel allowance 
amount calculation, consider a trained technician traveling 
45 miles from a laboratory in a city to a rural SNF, collecting 
blood specimens through venipuncture from 6 Medicare 
beneficiaries, and then driving 45 miles to return to the 
laboratory. 
In this example, the laboratory would use the per-mile travel 
allowance basis because the trained technician traveled more 
than 20 eligible miles to one location for specimen collection. 
To calculate the per-mile travel allowance amount, the 
laboratory would sum the eligible miles traveled to the location 
of Medicare beneficiaries receiving specimen collection 
services, which, in this case is 45 miles from the laboratory to 
the SNF and 45 miles from the SNF returning to the laboratory, 
for a total of 90 eligible miles. 
The eligible miles would then be multiplied by the travel 
allowance mileage rate of $1.11, yielding a total of $99.90. 
This total amount would then be prorated by dividing by the 
number of Medicare beneficiaries for whom a specimen 
collection fee is paid (6), yielding a per-beneficiary amount of 
$16.65 ($99.90/6 = $16.65). To bill for the travel allowance, the 
laboratory would submit one claim for each beneficiary in the 
amount of $16.65 HCPCS code P9603. 
Example 2: In another example, a trained technician travels 
40 miles from a laboratory to the location of a Medicare 
beneficiary to collect a blood specimen through venipuncture, 
721 
then travels 10 miles to the location of a non-Medicare patient 
to collect a blood specimen through venipuncture, then travels 
20 miles to the location of two Medicare beneficiaries to collect 
urine specimens by catheterization, and then travels 20 miles 
to return to the laboratory. 
In this example, the laboratory would use the per-mile travel 
allowance basis because the trained technician traveled to 
more than one location for specimen collection. 
To calculate the per-mile travel allowance amount, the 
laboratory would sum the eligible miles, which would include 
the miles traveled from the laboratory to the locations of 
Medicare beneficiaries to collect specimens plus the miles 
back to the laboratory for specimen drop-off. Eligible miles 
would not include the 1 O miles traveled to the location of the 
non-Medicare patient to collect a specimen, but would include 
the 40 miles traveled from the laboratory to the location of the 
first Medicare beneficiary, the 20 miles to the location of the 
two Medicare beneficiaries, and the return trip to the laboratory 
of 20 miles, for a total of 80 eligible miles. 
The eligible miles would then be multiplied by the travel 
allowance mileage rate of $1.11, yielding a total of $88.80. 
This total would then be prorated by dividing by three (3) 
Medicare beneficiaries for whom a specimen collection fee is 
paid, yielding an amount of $29.60. The laboratory would then 
submit a claim using HCPCS code P9603 for travel allowance 
for each of the Medicare beneficiaries in the amount of $29.60. 
The laboratory would receive payment for the eligible miles 
traveled by the trained technician, apportioned equally to each 
Medicare beneficiary for whom a specimen collection fee is 
paid. 
Neither the annual deductible nor the 20 percent coinsurance 
for Medicare apply to the travel allowance amount for CDL Ts. 
100-4, Chapter-16, 70.8
Certificate of Waiver 
Effective September 1, 1992, all laboratory testing sites 
(except as provided in 42CFR 493.3(b)) must have either a 
CUA certificate of waiver, certificate for provider-performed 
microscopy procedures, certificate of registration, certificate 
of compliance, or certificate of accreditation to legally perform 
clinical laboratory testing on specimens from individuals in the 
United States. 
The Food and Drug Administration approves CUA waived 
tests on a flow basis. The CMS identifies CUA waived tests 
by providing an updated list of waived tests to the Medicare 
contractors on a quarterly basis via a Recurring Update 
Notification. To be recognized as a waived test, some CUA 
waived tests have unique HCPCS procedure codes and some 
must have a OW modifier included with the HCPCS code. 
Information regarding CUA test complexity categorization can 
be found by searching the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
website (www.fda.gov). 
100-4, Chapter-17, 80.4.1
Clotting Factor Furnishing Fee 
The Medicare Modernization Act section 303(e)(1) added 
section 1842(o)(5)(C) of the Social Security Act which requires 
that, beginning January 1, 2005, a furnishing fee will be paid 
for items and services associated with clotting factor. 
Beginning January 1, 2005, a clotting factor furnishing fee is 
separately payable to entities that furnish clotting factor unless 
722 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
the costs associated with furnishing the clotting factor is paid 
through another payment system. 
The clotting factor furnishing fee is updated each calendar 
year based on the percentage increase in the consumer price 
index (CPI) for medical care for the 12-month period ending 
with June of the previous year. The clotting factor furnishing 
fees applicable for dates of service in each calendar year (CY) 
are listed below: 
CY 2005 - 0.140 per unit 
CY 2006 - 0.146 per unit 
CY 2007 - 0.152 per unit 
CY 2008 - 0.158 per unit 
CY 2009 - 0.164 per unit 
CY 2010 - 0.170 per unit 
CY 2011 - 0.176 per unit 
CY 2012 - 0.181 per unit 
CY 2013 - 0.188 per unit 
CY 2014 - 0.192 per unit 
CY 2015 - 0.197 per unit 
CY 2016 - $0.202 per unit 
CY 2017 - $0.209 per unit 
CY 2018 - $0.215 per unit 
CY 2019 - $0.220 per unit 
CY 2020 - $0.226 per unit 
CY 2021 - $0.238 per unit 
CY 2022 - $0.239 per unit 
CY 2023 - $0.250 per unit 
Annual updates to the clotting factor furnishing fee are 
subsequently communicated by a Recurring Update 
Notification. 
CMS includes this clotting factor furnishing fee in the nationally 
published payment limit for clotting factor billing codes. When 
the clotting factor is not included on the Average Sales Price 
(ASP) Medicare Part B Drug Pricing File or Not Otherwise 
Classified (NOC) Pricing File, the contractor must make 
payment for the clotting factor as well as make payment for the 
furnishing fee. 
100-4, Chapter-17, 90.3
Hospital Outpatient Payment Under OPPS for New, 
Unclassified Drugs and Biologicals After FDA Approval 
But Before Assignment of a Product-Specific Drug or 
Biological HCPCS Code 
Section 621 (a) of the MMA amends Section 1833(t) of the 
Social Security Act by adding paragraph (15), Payment for 
New Drugs and Biologicals Until HCPCS Code Assigned. 
Under this provision, payment for an outpatient drug or 
biological that is furnished as part of covered outpatient 
department services for which a product-specific HCPCS 
code has not been assigned shall be paid an amount equal to 
95 percent of average wholesale price (AWP). This provision 
applies only to payments under the hospital outpatient 
prospective payment system (OPPS). 
Beginning January 1, 2004, hospital outpatient departments 
may bill for new drugs and biologicals that are approved by the 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
FDA on or after January 1, 2004, for which a product-specific 
HCPCS code has not been assigned. Beginning on or after 
the date of FDA approval, hospitals may bill for the drug or 
biological using HCPCS code C9399, Unclassified drug or 
biological. 
Hospitals report in the ASC X12 837 institutional claim format 
in specific locations, or in the "Remarks" section of Form 
CMS-1450): 
•
the National Drug Code (NOC),
•
the quantity of the drug that was administered, expressed
in the unit of measure applicable to the drug or biological,
and
•
the date the drug was furnished to the beneficiary.
Contractors shall manually price the drug or biological at 
95 percent of AWP. They shall pay hospitals 80 percent of 
the calculated price and shall bill beneficiaries 20 percent of 
the calculated price, after the deductible is met. Drugs and 
biologicals that are manually priced at 95 percent of AWP are 
not eligible for outlier payment. 
HCPCS code C9399 is only to be reported for new drugs and 
biologicals that are approved by FDA on or after January 1, 
2004, for which there is no HCPCS code that describes the 
drug. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 10.1.2
Influenza Virus Vaccine 
Effective for services furnished on or after May 1, 1993, the 
influenza virus vaccine and its administration is covered 
when furnished in compliance with any applicable State law. 
Typically, this vaccine is administered once a flu season. 
Medicare does not require for coverage purposes that a doctor 
of medicine or osteopathy order the vaccine. Therefore, the 
beneficiary may receive the vaccine upon request without a 
physician's order and without physician supervision. Since 
there is no yearly limit, contractors A/B MACs (A) and (B) 
determine whether such services are reasonable and allow 
payment if appropriate. 
See Pub. 100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 
15, Section 50.4.4.2 for additional coverage requirements for 
influenza virus vaccine. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 10.2.1
Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) and Diagnosis Codes 
Vaccines and their administration are reported using separate 
codes. The following codes are for reporting the vaccines only. 
HCPCS Definition 
90630 
Influenza virus vaccine, quadrivalent (IIV4), split 
virus, preservative free, for intradermal use 
90653 
Influenza virus vaccine, inactivated, subunit, 
adjuvanted, for intramuscular use 
90654 
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, preservative-free, 
for intradermal use, for adults ages 18 - 64; 
90655 
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, preservative free, 
for children 6- 35 months of age, for intramuscular 
use; 
90656 
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, preservative 
free, for use in individuals 3 years and above, for 
intramuscular use; 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
90657 
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, for children 
6-35 months of age, for intramuscular use;
90658 
Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent (IIV3), split virus, 
0.5 ml dosage, for intramuscular use 
90660 
Influenza virus vaccine, live, for intranasal use; 
90661 
Influenza virus vaccine, derived from cell cultures, 
subunit, preservative and antibiotic free, for 
intramuscular use 
90662 
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, preservative free, 
enhanced immunogenicity via increased antigen 
content, for intramuscular use 
90670 
Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, 13 valent, for 
intramuscular use 
90672 
Influenza virus vaccine, live, quadrivalent, for 
intranasal use 
90673 
Influenza virus vaccine, trivalent, derived from 
recombinant DNA 
(RIV3), hemagglutinin (HA) protein only, preservative 
and antibiotic free, for intramuscular use 
90674 
Influenza virus vaccine, quadrivalent (ccllV4), derived 
from cell cultures, subunit, preservative and antibiotic 
free, 0.5 ml dosage, for intramuscular use 
90682 
Influenza virus vaccine, quadrivalent (RIV4), 
derived from recombinant DNA, hemagglutinin (HA) 
protein only, preservative and antibiotic free, for 
intramuscular use 
90685 
Influenza virus vaccine, quadrivalent, split 
virus, preservative free, when administered to 
children 6-35 months of age, for intramuscular use 
90686 
Influenza virus vaccine, quadrivalent, split virus, 
preservative free, when administered to individuals 
3 years of age and older, for intramuscular use 
90687 
Influenza virus vaccine, quadrivalent, split virus, 
when administered to children 6-35 months of age, 
for intramuscular use 
90688 
Influenza virus vaccine, quadrivalent, split virus, 
when administered to individuals 3 years of age and 
older, for intramuscular use 
90694 
Influenza virus vaccine, quadrivalent (aIIV4), 
inactivated, adjuvanted, preservative free, 0.5 ml 
dosage, for intramuscular use 
90732 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine, 23-valent, 
adult or immunosuppressed patient dosage, for us 
in individuals 2 years or older, for subcutaneous or 
intramuscular use; 
90739 
Hepatitis B vaccine, adult dosage (2 dose schedule), 
for intramuscular use 
90740 
Hepatitis B vaccine, dialysis or immunosuppressed 
patient dosage (3 dose schedule), for intramuscular 
use; 
90743 
Hepatitis B vaccine, adolescent (2 dose schedule), 
for intramuscular use; 
907 44 
Hepatitis B vaccine, pediatric/adolescent dosage 
(3 dose schedule), for intramuscular use; 
90746 
Hepatitis B vaccine, adult dosage, for intramuscular 
use; and 
723 
90747 
Hepatitis B vaccine, dialysis or immunosuppressed 
patient dosage (4 dose schedule), for intramuscular 
use. 
90756 
Influenza virus vaccine, quadrivalent (ccllV4), derived 
from cell cultures, subunit, antibiotic free, 0.5ml 
dosage, for intramuscular use 
90759 
Hepatitis B vaccine (HepB), 3-antigen (S, Pre-S1, 
Pre-S2), 10 mcg dosage, 3 dose schedule, for 
intramuscular use 
Note: COVID-19 vaccine and administration HCPCS are 
temporarily posted at: https://www.cms.gov/medicare/ 
medicare-part-b-drug-average-sales-price/covid-19-vaccines­
dmonoclonal-antibodies. 
Note: For the Medicare-covered codes for the influenza 
vaccines approved by FDA for current influenza 
vaccine season, please go to: https://www.cms.gov/ 
Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for-Service-Part-BDrugs/ 
McrPartBDrugAvgSalesPriceNaccinesPricing.html 
The following codes are for reporting administration of the 
vaccines only. The administration of the vaccines is billed 
using: 
HCPCS Definition 
G0008 
Administration of influenza virus vaccine; G0009 
Administration of pneumococcal vaccine; and 
*G0010 Administration of Hepatitis B vaccine. 
*90471 
Immunization administration. (For OPPS hospitals 
billing for the Hepatitis B vaccine administration) 
*90472 
Each additional vaccine. (For OPPS hospitals billing
for the Hepatitis B vaccine administration) 
* NOTE: Beginning January 1, 2011, providers should report 
G0010 for billing under the OPPS rather than 90471 or 90472
to ensure correct waiver of coinsurance and deductible for the
administration of hepatitis B vaccine.
NOTE: COVID-19 vaccine and administration HCPCS are 
temporarily posted at: https://www.cms.gov/medicare/ 
med icare-part-b-drug-average-sales-price/COVI D-19-
vaccines-andmonoclonal-anti bodies. 
The following diagnosis code must be reported. If the sole 
purpose for the visit is to receive a vaccine or if a vaccine is 
the only service billed on a claim, the applicable following 
diagnosis code may be used. 
ICD-10-CM 
Diagnosis Code 
Z23 
Description 
Encounter for Immunization 
NOTE: ICD-10-CM diagnosis code Z23 is to be used for all 
encounters for preventive vaccine immunizations, including 
COVID-19 immunizations. 
All claims must have the appropriate diagnosis code, 
procedure, and admin code to process correctly. 
724 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-18, 10.2.2.1
Payment for Pneumococcal Pneumonia Virus, 
Influenza Virus, and Hepatitis B Virus Vaccines 
and Their Administration on Institutional Claims 
Payment for Vaccines 
Payment for these vaccines is as follows: 
Payment for the administration of Hepatitis B vaccine is as 
follows: 
Facility 
Type of Bill 
Payment 
Hospitals, other than Indian 
Health Service (IHS) Hospitals and 
012x, 013x 
Reasonable cost 
Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs) 
IHS Hospitals 
012x, 013x, 083x 
95% ofAWP 
IHS CAHs 
085x 
95%of AWP 
CAHs 
Method I and Method II 
085x 
Reasonable cost 
Skilled Nursing Facilities 
022x, 023x 
Reasonable cost 
Home Health Agencies 
034x 
Reasonable cost 
Hospices 
081x, 082x 
95%ofAWP 
Comprehensive Outpatient 
075x 
95% of the AWP 
Rehabilitation Facilities 
Independent Renal Dialysis 
072x 
95% of the AWP 
Facilities 
Hospital-based Renal Dialysis 
072x 
Reasonable cost 
Facilities 
Payment for Vaccine Administration 
Payment for the administration of influenza virus and 
pneumococcal vaccines is as follows: 
Facility 
Type of Bill 
Payment 
Hospitals, other than 
012x, 013x 
Outpatient Prospective Payment 
IHS 
System (OPPS) for hospitals 
Hospitals and CAHs 
subject to OPPS 
Reasonable cost for hospitals not 
subject to OPPS 
IHS Hospitals 
012x, 013x, 
MPFS 
083x 
IHS CAHs 
085x 
MPFS 
CAHs 
085x 
Reasonable cost 
Method I and II 
Skilled Nursing 
022x, 023x 
MPFS 
Facilities 
Home Health Agencies 
034x 
OPPS 
Hospices 
081x, 082x 
MPFS 
Comprehensive 
075x 
MPFS 
Outpatient 
Rehabilitation Facilities 
Independent RDFs 
072x 
MPFS 
Hospital-based RDFs 
072x 
Reasonable cost 
CPJ-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Facility 
Type of Bill 
Payment 
Hospitals other than 
012x, 013x 
Outpatient Prospective 
IHS hospitals and 
Payment System (OPPS) for 
CAHs 
hospitals subject to OPPS 
Reasonable cost for hospitals not 
subject to OPPS 
IHS Hospitals 
012x, 013x, 
MPFS 
083x 
CAHs 
085x 
Reasonable cost 
Method I and 11 
IHS CAHs 
085x 
MPFS 
Skilled Nursing 
022x, 023x 
MPFS 
Facilities 
Home Health Agencies 034x 
OPPS 
Hospices 
081x, 082x 
MPFS 
Comprehensive 
075x 
MPFS 
Outpatient 
Rehabilitation Facilities 
Independent RDFs 
072x 
MPFS 
Hospital-based RDFs 
072x 
Reasonable cost 
100-4, Chapter-18, 10.2.5.2
MAC (Part B) Payment Requirements 
Payment for pneumococcal, influenza virus, and Hepatitis B 
vaccines follows the same standard rules that are applicable to 
any injectable drug or biological. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after February 1 , 
2001, §114, of the Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 
2000 mandated that all drugs and biologicals be paid based 
on mandatory assignment. Therefore, all providers of influenza 
virus and pneumococcal vaccines must accept assignment for 
the vaccine. 
Prior to March 1, 2003, the administration of pneumococcal, 
influenza virus, and Hepatitis B vaccines, (HCPCS codes 
G0008, G0009, and G0010), though not reimbursed 
directly through the MPFS, were reimbursed at the same 
rate as HCPCS code 90782 on the MPFS for the year that 
corresponded to the date of service of the claim. 
Prior to March 1, 2003, the administration of pneumococcal, 
influenza virus, and hepatitis B vaccines, (HCPCS codes 
G0008, G0009, and G0010), though not reimbursed directly 
through the MPFS, were paid at the same rate as HCPCS 
code 90782 on the MPFS for the year that corresponded to the 
date of service of the claim. 
For dates of service on or after March 1, 2003 through 
December 31, 2021, payment rates for HCPCS G0008, 
G0009, and G0010 were paid at the same rate as similar 
services on the MPFS determined through notice-and 
comment rulemaking. These payment amounts were 
determined on an annual basis and MACs were notified 
accordingly. 
Beginning January 1, 2022, the national payment rate for 
HCPCS G0008, G0009, and G0010 is $30. This payment 
amount is adjusted based on the Geographic Practice Cost 
Indices used in the MPFS. Locality adjusted payment rates for 
HCPCS G0008, G0009, and G0010 are available of the CMS 
website: 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for-Service-Part­
BDrugs/McrPartBDrugAvgSalesPriceNaccinesPricing 
Beginning January 1, 2022 and through the end of the 
calendar year in which the PHE for COVID-19 ends, the 
national payment rate for the administration of COVID-19 
vaccines is $40. This payment amount is adjusted based 
on the Geographic Practice Cost Indices used in the MPFS. 
Locality-adjusted payment rates for the administration of 
COVID-19 vaccines are available of the CMS website: 
https://www.cms.gov/medicare/medicare-part-b-drug-average­
sales-price/covid-19-vaccines-and-monoclonalantibodies 
Effective January 1 of the year following the year in which 
the PHE for COVID-19 ends, the payment rate for COVID-19 
vaccine administration will be set at a rate to align with the 
payment rate for the administration of other Part B preventive 
vaccines. 
Assignment for the administration is not mandatory, but is 
applicable should the provider be enrolled as a provider type 
"Mass Immunization Roster Biller," submits roster bills, or 
participates in the centralized billing program. 
MACs (Part B) may not apply the limiting charge provision 
for pneumococcal, influenza virus , hepatitis B, or COVID-19 
vaccines and their administration in accordance with 
§§1833(a)(1) and 1833(a)(1 O)(A) of the Social Security Act
(the Act.)
The vaccine and administration of the pneumococcal and 
influenza virus, and COVID-19 vaccine is covered in §1861(s) 
(10)(A) of the Act; §1861(s)(10)(B) includes the hepatitis B 
vaccine and administration rather than under the physicians' 
services benefit. Therefore, it is not eligible for the 10 percent 
Health Professional Shortage Area (HPSA) incentive payment 
or the 5 percent Physician Scarcity Area (PSA) incentive 
payment. 
No Legal Obligation to Pay 
Nongovernmental entities that provide immunizations free 
of charge to all patients, regardless of their ability to pay, 
must provide the immunizations free of charge to Medicare 
beneficiaries and may not bill Medicare. (See Pub. 100-
02, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, chapter 16.) Thus, 
for example, Medicare may not pay for influenza virus 
vaccinations administered to Medicare beneficiaries if a 
physician provides free vaccinations to all non-Medicare 
patients or where an employer offers free vaccinations to 
its employees. Physicians also may not charge Medicare 
beneficiaries more for a vaccine than they would charge non­
Medicare patients. (See §1128(b)(6)(A) of the Act.) When 
an employer offers free vaccinations to its employees, it 
must also offer the free vaccination to an employee who is 
also a Medicare beneficiary. It does not have to offer free 
vaccinations to its non-Medicare employees. 
Nongovernmental entities that do not charge patients who 
are unable to pay or reduce their charges for patients of 
limited means, yet expect to be paid if the patient has health 
insurance coverage for the services provided, may bill 
Medicare and expect payment. 
Governmental entities (such as PHCs) may bill Medicare for 
pneumococcal, hepatitis B, influenza virus, and COVID-19 
vaccines administered to Medicare beneficiaries when services 
are rendered free of charge to nonMedicare beneficiaries. 
Government entities may NOT bill Medicare for vaccine 
products during a public health emergency when vaccines 
are provided at no charge to Medicare and non-Medicare 
beneficiaries. 
725 
100-4, Chapter-18, 10.3.1.1
Centralized Billing for Influenza Virus and 
Pneumococcal Vaccines to A/B MACs (B) 
The CMS currently authorizes providers to centrally bill for 
influenza, pneumococcal, and COVI D-19 vaccination claims. 
That is to say, they bill all of the claims for those vaccinations 
to one MAC, rather than to each of the MACs that service the 
location where the services are rendered. 
Centralized billing is an optional program available to providers 
who qualify to enroll with Medicare as the provider type "Mass 
Immunization Roster Biller," as well as to other individuals and 
entities that qualify to enroll as regular Medicare providers. 
Centralized billers must roster bill, must accept assignment, 
and must bill electronically. 
The contractor assigned to process the claims for centralized 
billing will be chosen at the discretion of The Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) based on such 
considerations as workload, user-friendly software developed 
by the contractor for billing claims, and overall performance. 
Currently the specialty contractor for centralized billing is 
Novitas (JH). 
To qualify for centralized billing, a mass immunizer must be 
operating in at least three payment localities for which there 
are three different MACs processing claims. Individuals and 
entities providing the vaccine and administration must be 
properly licensed in the State in which the vaccinations are 
given and the MAC will verify this through the enrollment 
process. 
As previously stated, centralized billers must send all claims 
for influenza, pneumococcal, and COVID-19 vaccinations 
to a single MAC for payment, regardless of the jurisdiction 
in which the vaccination was administered. (This does not 
include claims for the Railroad Retirement Board, United 
Mine Workers or Indian Health Services. These claims must 
continue to go to the appropriate processing entity.) Payment 
is made based on the payment locality where the service was 
provided. Centralized billing is only available for claims for the 
influenza, pneumococcal, and COVID-19 vaccines and their 
administration. The general coverage and coding rules still 
apply to these claims. 
This section applies only to those individuals and entities 
that provide mass immunization services for influenza, 
pneumococcal, and COVID-19 virus vaccinations that have 
been authorized by CMS to centrally bill. All other providers, 
including those individuals and entities that provide mass 
immunization services that are not authorized to centrally bill, 
must continue to submit claims to their regular MAC (Part B) 
per the instructions in §10.3.1 of this chapter. 
The claims processing instructions in this section apply only to 
claims submitted to the designated processing MAC. However, 
all MACs (Part B) must follow the instructions in §10.3.1.1.J, 
below, "Provider Education Instructions for All MACs (Part B)." 
A. Request for Approval
Centralized Billing for Influenza, Pneumococcal and COVID-19 
Virus Vaccinations 
A. Information for Providers Interested in Applying for
Centralized Billing
In order to qualify as a centralized biller, a provider must be 
operating in at least three payment localities for which there 
are three different MACs processing claims. 
726 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Individuals and corporations who wish to enroll as a CMS 
centralized biller must send their request in writing to Novitas, 
(the current specialty contractor) at the address at the end of 
this section. 
Providers must include the following information in their 
application to become a centralized biller. 
1. Providers must indicate that they agree to the following:
a. Centralized billers providing the vaccine and 
administration must be properly licensed in the States 
in which the vaccinations are given.
b. Centralized biller must agree to accept assignment
(i.e., they must agree to accept the amount that
Medicare pays for the vaccine and the administration).
Since there is no coinsurance or deductible for the 
influenza, pneumococcal and COVI D-19 vaccinations,
accepting assignment means that Medicare
beneficiaries cannot be charged for the vaccination,
i.e., beneficiaries may not incur any out-of-pocket
expense. For example, a drugstore may not charge 
a Medicare beneficiary $10 for an influenza virus 
vaccination and give the beneficiary a coupon for
$10 to be used in the drugstore. This practice is
unacceptable.
c. Centralized billers must understand that beginning 
December 11, 2021 the payment rate for the
administration of the COVID-19 vaccine is $40 and
$30 for the other preventive vaccinations. These
payment amounts are geographically adjusted by 
locality. Therefore, the centralized biller must be 
willing to accept that payments received may vary
based on the geographic locality where the service
was performed.
d. Centralized billers must understand that the
payment rates for the vaccines will be determined
by the standard method used by Medicare for
reimbursement of drugs and biologicals.
e. Centralized billers must agree to submit their claims 
in a CMS approved electronic media claims standard
format. Paper claims will not be accepted.
f.
In addition to the elements required by regular roster
billing, centralized billers must complete the service 
facility location in order for the MAC to be able to pay 
correctly by geographic locality. Centralized billers 
should contact the processing contractor for specific 
information.
g. Centralized billers must obtain certain information
for each beneficiary including name, Medicare 
Beneficiary Identifier, date of birth, sex, and signature. 
Novitas must be contacted prior to the season for
exact requirements. The responsibility lies with
the centralized biller to submit correct beneficiary
Medicare information (including the correct MBI as
Novitas will not be able to process incomplete or
incorrect claims.
h. Centralized billers must obtain an address for each
beneficiary so that a Medicare Summary Notice
(MSN) can be sent to the beneficiary. Beneficiaries 
are sometimes confused when they receive an 
MSN from a MAC other than the MAC that normally
processes their claims, which results in unnecessary 
beneficiary inquiries to the MAC. Therefore, 
centralized billers must notify every beneficiary 
receiving an influenza, pneumococcal or COVID-19
virus vaccination that the claim will be processed by
CPr-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Novitas. This notification must be in writing, in the 
form of a brochure or handout, and must be provided 
to each beneficiary at the time he or she receives the 
vaccination. 
i.
Centralized billers must retain roster bills with
beneficiary signatures at their permanent location for
a time period consistent with Medicare regulations.
Novitas can provide this information.
j.
Though centralized billers may already have a
National Provider Identifier (NPI) number, for
purposes of centralized billing, they must also enroll
with Novitas. This can be done by completing the
Form CMS-855 (Provider Enrollment Application) that
can be obtained from Novitas.
k. If the request for centralized billing is approved,
for influenza and pneumococcal, and COVID-19
vaccinations, that approval is ongoing. It is the
responsibility of the approved centralized billers to
contact Novitas to make updates to their provider
enrollment data on file (i.e. clinic locations, name
change, and change to ownership are a few
examples) . Claims submitted without approval will be 
denied.
I.
If a centralized biller is applying to provide COVI D-19
vaccinations only, that approval will be ongoing.
It is the responsibility of the approved centralized
billers to contact Novitas to make updates to their
provider enrollment data on file (i.e. clinic locations,
name change, and change to ownership are a few
examples). Claims submitted without approval will be
denied.
2.
Applicants for centralized billing should also include
responses to the following:
a. A list of the States in which vaccination clinics will be 
held;
b. Contact information for a designated contact for the
centralized billing program.
Applications for centralized billing must be sent to the specialty 
MAC for centralized billing at: 
Novitas Solutions, Inc. 
Provider Enrollment Services 
Attention: Centralized Billing Program 
P.O. Box 3095 
Mechanicsburg, PA 17055-1813 
All applicants must meet the criteria for centralized billing 
at the time they apply for approval. Failure to provide a 
response to each statement will result in the request not being 
processed. Novitas will reach out to the applicant to attempt 
to complete any missing data. Should they be unable to 
resolve the matter via outreach efforts, Novitas shall return the 
application with details explaining why the submission could 
not be processed. 
B. Review of Applications
Novitas will review the information provided by applicants for 
completeness. Novitas will approve or deny the applicant's 
request for participation based on the information provided. 
Applicants who are approved shall continue to the next steps 
of enrollment through Novitas' provider enrollment department. 
Novitas will send a letter of disapproval to applicants who are 
determined ineligible to participate in the Medicare centralized 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
billing program. The letter will clearly explain why the request 
was denied. 
Submitting a request for participation does not automatically 
provide approval to set up vaccination clinics, vaccinate 
beneficiaries, and bill Medicare for reimbursement. All new 
participants must complete the approval process, including 
submission of a CMS-855 Application for enrollment with 
Novitas and receive a final approval before they vaccinate 
Medicare beneficiaries and bill Medicare for reimbursement. 
If a provider's request is approved for centralized billing for 
influenza, pneumococcal and COVID-19 vaccinations, the 
approval shall be ongoing. Approved providers will no longer 
be required to reapply on an annual basis. Centralized billers 
shall contact Novitas with any changes to their enrollment and/ 
or that states in which they operate. 
C. Enrollment
COVID-19 Mass lmmunizer Centralized Biller Enrollment 
For more information on enrolling as a COVID-19 mass 
immunizer centralized biller go to: https://www.cms.gov/ 
medicare/covid-19/enrollment-administering-covid-19-
vaccine-shots 
D. Electronic Submission of Claims on Roster Bills
All centralized billers must agree to submit their claims 
on roster bills in an electronic media claims format. The 
processing contractor must provide instructions on acceptable 
roster billing formats to the approved centralized billers. Paper 
claims will not be accepted. 
E. Required Information on Roster Bills for Centralized
Billing
In addition to the roster billing instructions found in §10.3.1 of 
this chapter, centralized billers must provide on the claim the 
ZIP code of where the service was rendered (to determine the 
payment locality for the claim), and the provider of service/ 
supplier's billing name, address, ZIP code, and telephone 
number. In addition, the NPI of the billing provider or group 
must be appropriately reported. 
F. Payment Rates and Mandatory Assignment
The payment rates for the administration of the vaccinations 
are based on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (MPFS) 
for the appropriate year. Payment made through the MPFS is 
based on geographic locality. Therefore, payments vary based 
on the geographic locality where the service was performed. 
The HCPCS codes G0008 and G0009 for the administration 
of the vaccines are not paid on the MPFS. However, prior to 
March 1, 2003, they must be paid at the same rate as HCPCS 
code 90782, which is on the MPFS. The designated contractor 
must pay per the correct MPFS file for each calendar year 
based on the date of service of the claim. Beginning March 
1, 2003, HCPCS codes G0008, G0009, and G0010 are to be 
reimbursed at the same rate as HCPCS code 90471. 
Effective for claims with dates of service January 1, 2020 
through December 31, 2021, the payment rates for G0008, 
G0009, and G0010, rather than being linked to the MPFS 
payment rate for 90471, they were to be paid at the same rate 
as they had been in 2019. 
Beginning January 1, 2022, the national payment rate for 
HCPCS G0008, G0009, and G0010 is $30. This payment 
amount is adjusted based on the Geographic Practice Cost 
Indices used in the MPFS. Locality adjusted payment rates 
for HCPCS G0008, G0009, and G0010 are available of the 
727 
CMS website: https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare­
Fee-for-Service-Part-BDrugs/McrPartBDrugAvgSalesPrice/ 
VaccinesPricing 
Beginning January 1, 2022 and through the end of the 
calendar year in which the PHE for COVID-19 ends, the 
national payment rate for the administration of COVID-19 
vaccines is $40. This payment amount is adjusted based 
on the Geographic Practice Cost Indices used in the MPFS. 
Locality-adjusted payment rates for the administration of 
COVID-19 vaccines are available of the CMS website: https:// 
www.cms.gov/medicare/medicare-part-b-drug-average-sales­
price/covid-19-vaccines-and-monoclonalantibodies 
Effective January 1 of the year following the year in which 
the PHE for COVID-19 ends, the payment rate for COVID-19 
vaccine administration will be set at a rate to align with the 
payment rate for the administration of other Part B preventive 
vaccines. 
In order to pay claims correctly for centralized billers, the 
designated contractor must have the correct name and 
address, including ZIP code, of where the service was 
provided. 
The following remittance advice and Medicare Summary 
Notice (MSN) messages apply: 
Claim adjustment reason code 16, "Claim/service lacks 
information which is needed for adjudication. At least one 
Remark Code must be provided (may be comprised of either 
the Remittance Advice Remark Code or NCPDP Reject 
Reason Code, Remittance advice remark code MA114, 
"Missing/incomplete/invalid information on where the 
services were furnished." 
MSN 9.4 - "This item or service was denied because 
information required to make payment was incorrect." 
The payment rates for the vaccines must be determined by 
the standard method used by Medicare for reimbursement 
of drugs and biologicals. (See chapter 17 for procedures for 
determining the payment rates for vaccines.) 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after February 
1, 2001, §114, of the Benefits Improvement and Protection Act 
of 2000 mandated that all drugs and biologicals be paid based 
on mandatory assignment. Therefore, all providers Medicare 
covered preventive must accept assignment for the vaccine. 
In addition, as a requirement for both centralized billing and 
roster billing, providers must agree to accept assignment for 
the administration of the vaccines as well. This means that 
they must agree to accept the amount that Medicare pays 
for the vaccine and the administration. Also, since there is no 
coinsurance or deductible for the influenza, pneumococcal, 
and COVID-19 vaccine benefits, accepting assignment 
means that Medicare beneficiaries cannot be charged for the 
vaccination. 
G. Common Working File Information
To identify these claims and to enable central office data 
collection on the project, special processing number 39 has 
been assigned. The number should be entered on the HUBC 
claim record to CWF in the field titled Demonstration Number. 
H. Provider Education Instructions for the Designated
Processing Part B MAC
The designated Part B MAC must fully educate the centralized 
billers on the processes for centralized billing as well as for 
roster billing. General information on influenza, pneumococcal, 
and COVID-19 vaccine coverage and billing instructions is 
available on the CMS Web site for providers. 
728 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
I. Provider Education Instructions for All MACs (Part BJ
By XXXX of every year, all MACs (Part B) must publish in their 
bulletins and put on their Web sites the following notification 
to providers. Questions from interested providers should be 
forwarded to Novitas, the designated processing Part B MAC 
for the centralized billing workload at the address below. MACs 
(Part B) must enter the name of the assigned processing 
contractor where noted before sending. 
NOTIFICATION TO PROVIDERS 
Centralized billing is a process in which a provider, who 
provides mass immunization services for influenza virus and 
pneumococcal pneumonia virus (PPV} immunizations, can 
send all claims to a single contractor for payment regardless 
of the geographic locality in which the vaccination was 
administered. (This does not include claims for the Railroad 
Retirement Board, United Mine Workers or Indian Health 
Services. These claims must continue to go to the appropriate 
processing entity.) This process is only available for claims 
for the influenza virus and pneumococcal vaccines and 
their administration. The administration of the vaccinations 
is reimbursed at the assigned rate based on the Medicare 
physician fee schedule for the appropriate locality. The 
vaccines are reimbursed at the assigned rate using the 
Medicare standard method for reimbursement of drugs and 
biologicals. 
Individuals and entities interested in influenza and 
pneumococcal centralized billing must contact Novitas, 
to begin centrally billing for influenza and pneumococcal 
vaccines. 
Applications to become a mass immunizer centralized biller for 
the COVID-19 vaccine is an ongoing enrollment. Individuals 
and entities can submit a request to become a centralized 
mass immunizer at any time. For more information on enrolling 
as a COVID-19 mass immunizer centralized biller go to: https:// 
www.cms.gov/medicare/covid-19/enrollment-admin istering­
covid-19-vaccine-shots. 
By agreeing to participate in the centralized billing program, 
providers agree to abide by the following criteria. 
CRITERIA FOR CENTRALIZED BILLING 
To qualify for centralized billing, an individual or entity 
providing mass vaccination services for influenza virus, 
pneumococcal, and COVID-19 vaccinations must provide 
these services in at least three payment localities for 
which there are at least three different contractors 
processing claims. 
Individuals and entities providing the vaccine and 
administration must be properly licensed in the state in 
which the immunizations are given. 
Centralized billers must agree to accept assignment (i.e., 
they must agree to accept the amount that Medicare 
pays for the vaccine and the administration). Accepting 
assignment means that Medicare beneficiaries cannot 
be charged for the vaccination, i.e., beneficiaries may 
not incur any out-of pocket expense. For example, a 
drugstore may not charge a Medicare beneficiary $1 O for 
an influenza virus vaccination and give the beneficiary a 
coupon for $10 to be used in the drugstore. 
NOTE: The practice of requiring a beneficiary to pay 
for the vaccination upfront and to file their own claim for 
reimbursement is inappropriate. All Medicare providers 
are required to file claims on behalf of the beneficiary per 
§ 1848(g)(4 )(A) of the Social Security Act and centralized
billers may not collect any payment.
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
The contractor assigned to process the claims for 
centralized billing is chosen at the discretion of CMS 
based on such considerations as workload, user-friendly 
software developed by the contractor for billing claims, 
and overall performance. The assigned contractor for this 
year is [Fill in name of contractor.] 
•
The payment rates for the administration of the
vaccinations are based on the Medicare physician fee
schedule (MPFS) for the appropriate year. Payment
made through the MPFS is based on geographic locality.
Therefore, payments received may vary based on the
geographic locality where the service was performed.
Payment is made at the assigned rate.
The payment rates for the vaccines are determined
by the standard method used by Medicare for
reimbursement of drugs and biologicals. Payment is
made at the assigned rate.
•
Centralized billers must submit their claims on roster bills
in an approved electronic format. Paper claims will not be
accepted.
•
Centralized billers must obtain certain information for
each beneficiary including name, MBI number, date
of birth, sex, and signature. [The designated Part B
MAC] must be contacted prior to submitting claims for
verification of billing requirements. The responsibility lies
with the centralized biller to submit correct beneficiary
Medicare information (including the beneficiary's
Medicare Health Insurance Claim Number) as the
contractor will not be able to process incomplete or
incorrect claims.
Centralized billers must obtain an address for each
beneficiary so that a Medicare Summary Notice (MSN)
can be sent to the beneficiary by the Part B MAC.
Beneficiaries are sometimes confused when they
receive an MSN from a Part B MAC other than the MAC
that normally processes their claims which results in
unnecessary beneficiary inquiries. Therefore, centralized
billers must provide every beneficiary receiving an
influenza virus or pneumococcal vaccination with the 
name of the processing Part B MAC. This notification
must be in writing, in the form of a brochure or handout,
and must be provided to each beneficiary at the time he
or she receives the vaccination.
•
Centralized billers must retain roster bills with beneficiary
signatures at their permanent location for a time period
consistent with Medicare regulations. [The designated
Part B MAC] can provide this information.
Though centralized billers may already have a Medicare
provider number, for purposes of centralized billing, they
must also obtain a provider number from [The designated
Part B MAC]. This can be done by completing the Form
CMS-855 (Provider Enrollment Application), which can
be obtained from [The designated Part B MAC].
NOTE: lnfluenza/Pneumococcal Mass lmmunizer
Centralized Billers DO NOT need to enroll separately
as a COVID-19 Mass lmmunizer Centralized Biller to
administer COVID-19 vaccine shots.
If an individual or entity's request for centralized billing
of influenza, pneumococcal, and/or COVID-19 vaccines
is approved, the approval is ongoing. Claims will not
be processed for any influenza, pneumococcal, or
COVID-19 centralized biller without approval from the
designated Part B MAC.
Each year the centralized biller must contact the
designated Part B MAC to verify understanding of
the coverage policy for the administration of the
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
pneumococcal vaccine, and for a copy of the warning 
language that is required on the roster bill. 
•
The centralized biller is responsible for providing
the beneficiary with a record of the pneumococcal
vaccination.
•
The information in items 1 through 8 below must be
included with the individual or entity's annual request to 
participate in centralized billing:
1. Estimates for the number of beneficiaries who will
receive influenza virus vaccinations;
2.
Estimates for the number of beneficiaries who will
receive pneumococcal vaccinations;
3.
Estimates for the number of beneficiaries who will
receive COVI D-19 vaccinations (if applicable);
4.
The approximate dates for when the vaccinations will
be given;
5.
A list of the states in which influenza, pneumococcal,
and COVID-19 vaccination clinics will be held;
6. The type of services generally provided by the
corporation (e.g., ambulance, home health, or visiting
nurse);
7.
Whether the nurses who will administer the influenza,
and pneumococcal, and COVID-19 vaccinations
are employees of the corporation or will be hired
by the corporation specifically for the purpose
of administering influenza, pneumococcal, and
COVID-19 vaccinations;
8. Names and addresses of all entities operating under
the corporation's application (not clinic locations);
9. Contact information for designated contact person for
centralized billing program.
100-4, Chapter-18, 10.4.1
CWF Edits on MAC (Part A) Claims 
In order to prevent duplicate payment by the same MAC 
(Part A), CWF edits by line item on the MAC (Part A) number, 
the Medicare Beneficiary Identifier (MBI) number, and the date 
of service, the influenza virus procedure codes 90630, 90653, 
90654,90655,90656,90657,90658,90660,90661,90662, 
90672,90673,90674,90682,90685,90686,90687,90688, 
90694, or 90756 and the pneumococcal procedure codes 
90670, 90671, 90677, or 90732, and the administration code, 
G0008 or G0009. 
1. If CWF receives a claim with either HCPCS codes 90630,
90653,90654,90655,90656,90657,90658,90660,90661, 
90662,90672,90673,90674,90685,90686,90687,90688,
90694, or 90756 and it already has on record a claim with 
the same MBI number, same MAC (Part A) number, same
date of service, and any one of those HCPCS codes, the
second claim submitted to CWF rejects. 
2.
If CWF receives a claim with HCPCS codes 90670,
90671, 90677, or 90732 and it already has on record a
claim with the same MBI number, same MAC (Part A)
number, same date of service, and the same HCPCS
code, the second claim submitted to CWF rejects when
all four items match.
3.
If CWF receives a claim with HCPCS administration
codes G0008 or G0009 and it already has on record
a claim with the same MBI number, same MAC (Part
A) number, same date of service, and same procedure
code, CWF rejects the second claim submitted when all
four items match.
729 
CWF returns to the MAC (Part A) a reject code "7262" for this 
edit. MACs (Part A) must deny the second claim and use the 
same messages they currently use for the denial of duplicate 
claims. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 10.4.2
CWF Edits on MAC (Part B) Claims 
In order to prevent duplicate payment by the same MAC (Part 
B), CWF will edit by line item on the MAC (Part B) number, the 
MBI number, the date of service, the influenza virus procedure 
codes 90630,90653,90654,90655,90656,90657,90658, 
90660,90661,90662,90672,90673,90674,90682,90685, 
90686, 90687, 90688, 90694, or 90756; the pneumococcal 
procedure codes 90670, 90671, 90677, or 90732; and the 
administration code G0008 or G0009. 
1. If CWF receives a claim with either HCPCS codes 90630,
90653,90654,90655,90656,90657, 90658,90660, 
90661,90662,90672,90673,90674,90682,90685, 
90686, 90687, 90688, 90694, or 90756 and it already has
on record a claim with the same MBI number, same MAC
(Part B) number, same date of service, and any one of 
those HCPCS codes, the second claim submitted to CWF
will reject.
2. If CWF receives a claim with HCPCS codes 90670, 
90671, 90677, or 90732 and it already has on record a 
claim with the same MBI number, same MAC (Part B)
number, same date of service, and the same HCPCS 
code, the second claim submitted to CWF will reject 
when all four items match. 
3. If CWF receives a claim with HCPCS administration
codes G0008 or G0009 and it already has on record a 
claim with the same MBI number, same MAC (Part B) 
number, same date of service, and same procedure 
code, CWF will reject the second claim submitted.
CWF will return to the MAC (Part B) a specific reject code for 
these edits. MACs (Part B) must deny the second claim and 
use the same messages they currently use for the denial of 
duplicate claims. 
In order to prevent duplicate payment by the centralized billing 
contractor and local MAC (Part B), CWF will edit by line item 
for MAC (Part B) number, same MBI number, same date of 
service, the influenza virus procedure codes 90630, 90653, 
90654,90655,90656,90657,90658,90660, 90661,90662, 
90672,90673,90674,90685, 90686,90687, 90688,90694, 
or 90756; the pneumococcal virus procedure codes 90670, 
90671, 90677, or 90732; and the administration code G0008 
or G0009. 
If CWF receives a claim with either HCPCS codes 90630, 
90653,90654, 90655,90656, 90657,90658,90660,90661, 
90662,90672, 90673,90674,90682,90685,90686,90687, 
90688, 90694, or 90756 and it already has on record a claim 
with a different MAC (Part B) number, but same MBI number, 
same date of service, and any one of those same HCPCS 
codes, the second claim submitted to CWF will reject. 
If CWF receives a claim with HCPCS codes 90670 90671 
90677, or 90732 and it already has on record a claim with 
the same MBI number, different MAC (Part B) number, same 
date of service, and the same HCPCS code, the second claim 
submitted to CWF will reject. 
If CWF receives a claim with HCPCS administration codes 
G0008 or G0009 and it already has on record a claim with a 
different MAC (Part B) number, but the same MBI number, 
730 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
same date of service, and same procedure code, CWF will 
reject the second claim submitted. 
CWF will return a specific reject code for these edits. MACs 
(Part B) must deny the second claim. The reject code should 
automatically trigger the following Medicare Summary Notice 
(MSN) and Remittance Advice (RA) messages. 
MSN: 7.2 - "This is a duplicate of a claim processed by 
another contractor. You should receive a Medicare Summary 
Notice from them." 
Claim Adjustment Reason Code 18 - Exact duplicate claim/ 
service 
EDITS FOR CLAIMS SUBMITTED TO THE 
CENTRALIZED BILLING PROCESSING MAC 
(PART B) AND THE LOCAL MAC (PART B) 
In order to prevent duplicate payment by the centralized billing 
contractor and local MAC (Part B), CWF will edit by line item 
for MAC (Part B) number, same MBI number, same date of 
service, the influenza virus procedure codes 90630, 90653, 
90654,90655,90656,90657, 90658,90660,90661,90662, 
90672,90673,90674,90685,90686,90687,90688,90694, 
or 90756; the pneumococcal virus procedure codes 90670, 
90671, 90677, or 90732; and the administration code G0008 
or G0009. 
1. If CWF receives a claim with either HCPCS codes 90630,
90653,90654,90655,90656,90657,90658,90660,
90661,90662,90672,90673,90674,90682,90685, 
90686, 90687, 90688, 90694, or 90756 and it already has 
on record a claim with a different MAC (Part B) number,
but same MBI number, same date of service, and any 
one of those same HCPCS codes, the second claim 
submitted to CWF will reject.
2. If CWF receives a claim with HCPCS codes 90670, 
90671, 90677, or 90732 and it already has on record a 
claim with the same MBI number, different MAC (Part
B) number, same date of service, and the same HCPCS
code, the second claim submitted to CWF will reject.
3. If CWF receives a claim with HCPCS administration
codes G0008 or G0009 and it already has on record a 
claim with a different MAC (Part B) number, but the same
MBI number, same date of service, and same procedure
code, CWF will reject the second claim submitted.
CWF will return a specific reject code for these edits. MACs 
(Part B) must deny the second claim. The reject code should 
automatically trigger the following Medicare Summary Notice 
(MSN) and Remittance Advice (RA) messages. 
MSN: 7.2 - "This is a duplicate of a claim processed by 
another contractor. You should receive a Medicare Summary 
Notice from them." 
Claim Adjustment Reason Code 18 - Exact duplicate claim/ 
service 
100-4, Chapter-18, 10.4.3
CWF Crossover Edits for A/B MAC (B) Claims 
When CWF receives a claim from the MAC (Part B), it will 
review Part B outpatient claims history to verify that a duplicate 
claim has not already been posted. 
CWF will edit on the beneficiary MBI number; the date of 
service; the influenza virus procedure codes 90630, 90653, 
90654,90655,90656,90657,90658,90660,90661,90662, 
90672,90673,90674,90682,90685,90686,90687,90688, 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
90694, or 90756; the pneumococcal procedure codes 
90670,90671, 90677, or 90732; and the administration code 
G0008 or G0009. 
CWF will return a specific reject code for this edit. MACs (B) 
must deny the second claim and use the same messages they 
currently use for the denial of duplicate claims. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 20
Mammography Services (Screening and 
Diagnostic) 
A. Screening Mammography
Beginning January 1, 1991, Medicare provides Part B 
coverage of screening mammographies for women. Screening 
mammographies are radiologic procedures for early detection 
of breast cancer and include a physician's interpretation of 
the results. A doctor's prescription or referral is not necessary 
for the procedure to be covered. Whether payment can be 
made is determined by a woman's age and statutory frequency 
parameter. See Pub. 100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, 
chapter 15, section 280.3 for additional coverage information 
for a screening mammography. 
Section 4101 of the Balanced Budget Act (BBA) of 1997 
provides for annual screening mammographies for women 
over age 39 and waives the Part B deductible. Coverage 
applies as follows: 
Age Groups 
Screening Period 
Under age 35 No payment allowed for screening mammography. 
35-39
Baseline (pay for only one screening mammography 
performed on a woman between her 35th and 40th birthday) 
Over age 39 
Annual (11 full months have elapsed following the month of 
last screening 
NOTE: Count months between screening mammographies 
beginning the month after the date of the examination. For 
example, if Mrs. Smith received a screening mammography 
examination in January 2005, begin counting the next month 
(February 2005) until 11 months have elapsed. Payment can 
be made for another screening mammography in January 
2006. 
B. Diagnostic Mammography
A diagnostic mammography is a radiological mammogram and 
is a covered diagnostic test under the following conditions: 
•
A patient has distinct signs and symptoms for which a
mammogram is indicated;
A patient has a history of breast cancer; or 
A patient is asymptomatic, but based on the patient's
history and other factors the physician considers
significant, the physician's judgment is that a
mammogram is appropriate.
•
Beginning January 1, 2005, Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (MMA) of
2003, §644, Public Law 108-173 has changed the way
Medicare pays for diagnostic mammography. Medicare
will pay based on the MPFS in lieu of OPPS or the lower
of the actual change.
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 60.1
Payment 
Payment is under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule 
(MPFS) except as follows: 
FOBTs [CPT® 82270* (HCPCS G0107*) and HCPCS 
G0328] are paid under the clinical laboratory fee 
schedule (CLFS) except reasonable cost is paid to all 
non-outpatient prospective payment system (OPPS) 
hospitals, including Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs), 
but not Indian Health Service (IHS) hospitals billing 
on type of bill (TOB) 83X. IHS hospitals billing on TOB 
83X are paid the Ambulatory Surgery Center (ASC) 
payment amount. Other IHS hospitals (billing on TOB 
13X) are paid the Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB)-approved all-inclusive rate (AIR), or the facility 
specific per visit amount as applicable. Deductible and 
coinsurance do not apply for these tests. See section A 
below for payment to Maryland waiver hospitals on TOB 
13X. Payment to all hospitals for non-patient laboratory 
specimens on TOB 14X will be based on the CLFS, 
including CAHs and Maryland waiver hospitals. 
•
For claims with dates of service on or after January 1, 2015
through December 31, 2015, the Cologuard™ multitarget 
sDNA test (HCPCS G0464) is paid under the CLFS. 
NOTE: For claims with dates of service October 9, 2014
thru December 31, 2014, HCPCS code G0464 is paid
under local contractor pricing.
For claims with dates of service on or after January 1,
2016, CPT® code 81528 replaces G0464 is paid under
on the CLFS.
•
Flexible sigmoidoscopy (code G0104) is paid under
OPPS for hospital outpatient departments and on a
reasonable cost basis for CAHs; or current payment
methodologies for hospitals not subject to OPPS.
For claims with dates of service on or after January 19, 
2021, Blood-based Biomarker test (HCPCS G0327) is
paid under the CLFS.
•
Colonoscopies (HCPCS G0105 and G0121) and barium
enemas (HCPCS G0106 and G0120) are paid under
OPPS for hospital outpatient departments and on a
reasonable cost basis for CAHs or current payment
methodologies for hospitals not subject to OPPS. Also
colonoscopies may be performed in an ASC and when 
done in an ASC, the ASC rate applies. The ASC rate is 
the same for diagnostic and screening colonoscopies.
The ASC rate is paid to IHS hospitals when the service is
billed on TOB 83X.
The following screening codes must be paid at rates consistent 
with the rates of the diagnostic codes indicated. Coinsurance 
and deductible apply to diagnostic codes. 
HCPCS Screening Code 
HCPCS Diagnostic Code 
G0104 
45330 
G0105 and G0121 
45378 
G0106 and G0120 
74280 
A. Special Payment Instructions for TOB 13X Maryland
Waiver Hospitals
For hospitals in Maryland under the jurisdiction of the Health 
Services Cost Review Commission, screening colorectal 
services HCPCS G0104, G0105, G0106, 82270* (G0107*), 
G0120, G0121, G0328, G0464 and 81528 are paid according 
to the terms of the waiver, that is 94% of submitted charges 
731 
minus any unmet existing deductible, co-insurance and 
non-covered charges. Maryland Hospitals bill TOB 13X for 
outpatient colorectal cancer screenings. 
B. Special Payment Instructions for Non-Patient
Laboratory Specimen (TOB 14X) for All Hospitals
Payment for colorectal cancer screenings (CPT® 82270* 
(HCPCS G0107*), HCPCS G0328, and G0464 (Effective 
January 1, 2016, HCPCS G0464 is discontinued and replaced 
with CPT® 81528) to a hospital for a non-patient laboratory 
specimen (TOB 14X), is the lesser of the actual charge, the 
fee schedule amount, or the National Limitation Amount (NLA). 
(including CAHs and Maryland Waiver hospitals). Part B 
deductible and coinsurance do not apply. 
•
*NOTE: For claims with dates of service prior to January 1, 
2007, physicians, suppliers, and providers report HCPCS 
G0107. Effective January 1, 2007, HCPCS G0107 was 
discontinued and replaced with CPT® 82270. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 80
Initial Preventive Physical Examination (IPPE) 
(NOTE: For billing and payment requirements for the Annual 
Wellness Visit, see chapter 18, section 140, of this chapter.) 
Background: Sections 1861(s)(2)(w) and 1861(ww) of the 
Social Security Act (and implementing regulations at 42 CFR 
410.16, 411.15(a)(1), and 411.15(k)(11)) authorize coverage 
under Part B for a one-time initial preventive physical 
examination (IPPE) for new Medicare beneficiaries that meet 
certain eligibility requirements. 
Coverage: As described in implementing regulations at 42 
CFR 410.16, 411.15(a)(1), and 411.15(k)(11), the IPPE may be 
performed by a doctor of medicine or osteopathy as defined in 
section 1861 (r)(1) of the Social Security Act (the Act) or by a 
qualified nonphysician practitioner (NPP) (physician assistant. 
nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist). not later than 
12 months after the date the individual's first coverage begins 
under Medicare Part B. (See section 80.3 for a list of bill types 
of facilities that can bill NB MACs for this service.) 
The IPPE includes: 
1. review of the individual's medical and social history with 
attention to modifiable risk factors for disease detection, 
2. review of the individual's potential (risk factors) for 
depression or other mood disorders, 
3. review of the individual's functional ability and level of
safety;
4. an examination to include measurement of the
individual's height, weight, body mass index, blood
pressure, a visual acuity screen, and other factors as
deemed appropriate, based on the beneficiary's medical 
and social history; 
5. end-of-life planning, upon agreement of the individual.
6. education, counseling, and referral, as deemed
appropriate, based on the results of the review and
evaluation services described in the previous 5 elements,
and 
7. education, counseling, and referral including a brief 
written plan (e.g., a checklist or alternative) provided to 
the individual for obtaining appropriate screening and
other preventive services, which are separately covered
under Medicare Part B.
Medicare will pay for only one IPPE per beneficiary per lifetime. 
The Common Working File (CWF) will edit for this benefit. 
732 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
The IPPE does not include other preventive services that 
are currently separately covered and paid under Medicare 
Part B. (That is: pneumococcal, influenza and Hepatitis B 
vaccines and their administration, screening mammography, 
screening pap smear and screening pelvic examinations, 
prostate cancer screening tests, colorectal cancer screening 
tests, diabetes outpatient self-management training services, 
bone mass measurements, glaucoma screening, medical 
nutrition therapy for individuals with diabetes or renal disease, 
cardiovascular screening blood tests, diabetes screening tests, 
screening ultrasound for abdominal aortic aneurysms, an 
electrocardiogram, and additional preventive services covered 
under Medicare Part B through the Medicare national coverage 
determination process.) 
For the physician/practitioner billing correct coding and payment 
policy, refer to chapter 12, section 30.6.1.1, of this manual. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 80.1
Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) Coding for the IPPE 
The HCPCS codes listed below were developed for the IPPE 
benefit effective January 1, 2005, for individuals whose initial 
enrollment is on or after January 1, 2005. 
G0344: Initial preventive physical examination; face-to-face 
visit, services limited to new beneficiary during the first 6 
months of Medicare enrollment 
Short Descriptor: Initial Preventive Exam 
G0366: Electrocardiogram, routine ECG with 12 leads; 
performed as a component of the initial preventive examination 
with interpretation and report 
Short Descriptor: EKG for initial prevent exam 
G0367: tracing only, without interpretation and report. 
performed as a component of the initial preventive examination 
Short Descriptor: EKG tracing for initial prev 
G0368: interpretation and report only, performed as a 
component of the initial preventive examination 
Short Descriptor: EKG interpret & report preve 
The following new HCPCS codes were developed for the IPPE 
benefit effective January 1, 2009, and replaced codes G0344, 
G0366, G0367, and G0368 shown above beginning with dates 
of service on or after January 1, 2009: 
G0402: Initial preventive physical examination; face-to-face 
visit, services limited to new beneficiary during the first 12 
months of Medicare enrollment 
Short Descriptor: Initial Preventive exam 
G0403: Electrocardiogram, routine ECG with 12 leads; 
performed as a screening for the initial preventive physical 
examination with interpretation and report 
Short Descriptor: EKG for initial prevent exam 
G0404: Electrocardiogram, routine ECG with 12 leads; 
tracing only, without interpretation and report, performed as a 
screening for the initial preventive physical examination 
Short Descriptor: EKG tracing for initial prev 
G0405: Electrocardiogram, routine ECG with 12 leads; 
interpretation and report only, performed as a screening for the 
initial preventive physical examination 
Short Descriptor: EKG interpret & report preve 
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-18, 80.2
A/B MAC) (B) Billing Requirements 
Effective for dates of service on and after January 1, 2005, 
through December 31, 2008, contractors shall recognize the 
HCPCS codes G0344, G0366, G0367, and G0368 shown 
above in §80.1 for an IPPE. The type of service (TOS) for each 
of these codes is as follows: 
G0344: TOS = 1 
G0366: TOS = 5 
G0367: TOS = 5 
G0368: TOS = 5 
A/8 MACs (B) shall pay physicians or qualified nonphysician 
practitioners for only one IPPE performed not later than 
6 months after the date the individual's first coverage begins 
under Medicare Part B, but only if that coverage period begins 
on or after January 1, 2005. 
Effective for dates of service on and after January 1, 2009, 
contractors shall recognize the HCPCS codes G0402, G0403, 
G0404, and G0405 shown above in §80.1 for an IPPE. The 
TOS for each of these codes is as follows: 
G0402: TOS = 1 
G0403: TOS = 5 
G0404: TOS = 5 
G0405: TOS = 5 
Under the MIPPA of 2008, A/8 MACs (B) shall pay physicians 
or qualified nonphysician practitioners for only one IPPE 
performed not later than 12 months after the date the 
individual's first coverage begins under Medicare Part B only if 
that coverage period begins on or after January 1, 2009. 
A/8 MACs (8) shall allow payment for a medically necessary 
Evaluation and Management (E/M) service at the same visit 
as the IPPE when it is clinically appropriate. Physicians and 
qualified nonphysician practitioners shall use CPT® codes 
99201-99215 to report an E/M with CPT® modifier 25 to 
indicate that the E/M is a significant, separately identifiable 
service from the IPPE code reported (G0344 or G0402, 
whichever applies based on the date the IPPE is performed). 
Refer to chapter 12, §30.6.1.1 , of this manual for the physician/ 
practitioner billing correct coding and payment policy regarding 
E/M services. 
If the EKG performed as a component of the I PPE is not 
performed by the primary physician or qualified NPP during 
the IPPE visit, another physician or entity may perform and/ 
or interpret the EKG. The referring physician or qualified NPP 
needs to make sure that the performing physician or entity 
bills the appropriate G code for the screening EKG, and not a 
CPT® code in the 93000 series. Both the IPPE and the EKG 
should be billed in order for the beneficiary to receive the 
complete IPPE service. Effective for dates of service on and 
after January 1, 2009, the screening EKG is optional and is no 
longer a mandated service of an IPPE if performed as a result 
of a referral from an IPPE. 
Should the same physician or NPP need to perform an 
additional medically necessary EKG in the 93000 series on 
the same day as the IPPE, report the appropriate EKG CPT® 
code(s) with modifier 59, indicating that the EKG is a distinct 
procedural service. 
Physicians or qualified nonphysician practitioners shall bill 
the contractor the appropriate HCPCS codes for IPPE. The 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
HCPCS codes for an IPPE and screening EKG are paid 
under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (MPFS). See 
§1.3 of this chapter for waiver of cost sharing requirements
of coinsurance, copayment and deductible for furnished
preventive services available in Medicare.
100-4, Chapter-18, 80.3.3
Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS) 
Hospital Billing 
Hospitals subject to OPPS (TOBs 12X and 13X) must use 
modifier -25 when billing the IPPE G0344 along with the 
technical component of the EKG, G0367, on the same claim. 
The same is true when billing IPPE code G0402 along with 
the technical component of the screening EKG, code G0404. 
This is due to an OPPS Outpatient Code Editor (OCE) which 
contains an edit that requires a modifier -25 on any evaluation 
and management (E/M) HCPCS code if there is also a status 
"S" or "T" HCPCS procedure code on the claim. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 80.4
Coinsurance and Deductible 
The Medicare deductible and coinsurance apply for the IPPE 
provided before January 1, 2009. 
The Medicare deductible is waived effective for the IPPE 
provided on or after January 1, 2009. Coinsurance continues 
to apply for the IPPE provided on or after January 1, 2009. 
As a result of the Affordable Care Act, effective for the IPPE 
provided on or after January 1, 2011, the Medicare deductible 
and coinsurance (for HCPCS code G0402 only) are waived. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 130.1
Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) for HIV Screening Tests 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after 
December 8, 2009, implemented with the April 5, 2010, IOCE, 
the following HCPCS codes are to be billed for HIV screening: 
•
G0432- Infectious agent antibody detection by enzyme
immunoassay (EIA) technique, HIV-1 and/or HIV-2,
screening,
G0433 - Infectious agent antibody detection by enzyme­
linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique, HIV-1
and/or HIV-2, screening, and,
G0435 -Infectious agent antibody detection by rapid
antibody lest, HIV-1 and/or HIV-2, screening.
100-4, Chapter-18, 130.2
Billing Requirements 
Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs) shall recognize 
the above HCPCS codes for HIV screening in accordance 
with Publication 100-03, Medicare National Coverage 
Determinations Manual, section 210.7. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after 
December 8, 2009, MACs shall pay for voluntary HIV 
screening as follows: 
•
A maximum of once annually for beneficiaries at
increased risk for HIV infection (11 full months must
elapse following the month the previous test was
performed in order for the subsequent test to be 
covered), and,
733 
•
A maximum of three times per term of pregnancy for 
pregnant Medicare beneficiaries beginning with the date 
of the first test when ordered by the woman's clinician. 
Claims that are submitted for HIV screening shall be submitted 
in the following manner: 
For beneficiaries reporting increased risk factors, claims 
shall contain HCPCS code G0432, G0433, or G0435 with 
diagnosis code V73.89 (Special screening for other specified 
viral disease) as primary, and V69.8 (Other problems related to 
lifestyle), as secondary. 
For beneficiaries not reporting increased risk factors, claims 
shall contain HCPCS code G0432, G0433, or G0435 with 
diagnosis code V73.89 only. 
For pregnant Medicare beneficiaries, claims shall contain 
HCPCS code G0432, G0433, or G0435 with diagnosis code 
V73.89 as primary, and one of the following ICD-9 diagnosis 
codes: V22.0 (Supervision of normal first pregnancy), V22.1 
(Supervision of other normal pregnancy), or V23.9 (Supervision 
of unspecified high-risk pregnancy), as secondary. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after April 13, 
2015, MACs shall also pay for voluntary, HIV screening as follows 
(replacing ICD-9 with ICD-10 beginning October 1, 2015): 
For pregnant Medicare beneficiaries, claims shall contain 
HCPCS code G0432, G0433, G0435, G0475 or CPT®-80081 
with primary ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis code V73.89/Z11.4, 
along with one of the following ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis codes 
as secondary listed below, and allow no more than 3 HIV 
screening tests during each term of pregnancy beginning with 
the date of the 1st test: 
ICD-9: 
V22.0 
Supervision of normal first pregnancy 
Z34.00 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, 
unspecified trimester 
Z34.01 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, 
first trimester 
ICD-10: 
Z34.02 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, 
second trimester 
Z34.03 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, 
third trimester 
ICD-9: 
V22.1 
Supervision of other normal pregnancy 
Z34.80 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, 
unspecified trimester 
Z34.81 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, 
first trimester 
Z34.82 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, 
second trimester 
Z34.83 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, 
third trimester 
ICD-10: 
Z34.9 0 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, 
unspecified, unspecified trimester 
Z34.91 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, 
unspecified, first trimester 
Z34.92 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, 
unspecified, second trimester 
Z34.93 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, 
unspecified, third trimester 
ICD-9: 
V23.9 
Supervision of unspecified high-risk pregnancy 
734 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
009.90 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, 
unspecified trimester 
009.91 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, first 
trimester 
ICD-10: 
009.92 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, 
second trimester 
009.93 Supervision of high risk pregnancy, 
unspecified, third trimester 
For non-pregnant Medicare beneficiaries, claims shall 
contain HCPCS code G0432, G0433, G0435, or G0475 for 
beneficiaries between 15 and 65 years of age one time per 
annum with ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis code V73.89/Z11.4 as 
primary regardless of risk factors. If primary ICD-9/ICD-10 
diagnosis code V73.89/Z11.4 is not present and the beneficiary 
is between 15 and 65 years of age, or the service is billed 
more than one time per annum, the detail line shall be denied. 
For non-pregnant Medicare beneficiaries, claims shall 
contain HCPCS code G0432, G0433, G0435, or G0475 
for beneficiaries less than 15 and greater than 65 years of 
age one time per annum with ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis code 
V73.89/ Z11.4 as primary, and one of the following secondary 
ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis codes: 
V69.8 (Other problems related to lifestyle)/Z72.89 (Other 
problems related to lifestyle) 
Z72.51 (High risk heterosexual behavior) 
Z72.52 (High risk homosexual behavior) 
Z72.53 (High risk bisexual behavior) 
If ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis code V73.89/Z11.4 is not present as 
primary and one of the ICD-9/ICD-10 secondary codes listed 
above is not present and the beneficiary is less than 15 or 
greater than 65 years of age, or the service is billed more than 
one time per annum, the detail line shall be denied. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 130.3
Payment Method 
Payment for HIV screening, HCPCS codes G0432, G0433, 
G0435, is under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee 
Schedule (CLFS) for Types of Bill (TOB) 12X, 13X, 14X, 22X, 
and 23X beginning January 1, 2011. For TOB 85X payment is 
based on reasonable cost. Deductible and coinsurance do not 
apply. Between December 8, 2009, and April 4, 2010, these 
services can be billed with unlisted procedure code 87999. 
Between April 5, 2010, and January 1, 2011, HCPCS codes 
G0432, G0433, and G0435 will be contractor priced. 
Payment for HIV screening, HCPCS code G0475, for 
institutional claims will be under the Medicare CLFS for TOB 
12X, 13X, 14X, 22X, and 23X for claims on or after January 1, 
2017. For TOB 85X payment is based on reasonable cost. 
Effective for claims with date of service from April 13, 2015 
through December 31, 2016, HCPCS code G04 75 will be 
contractor priced. Beginning with date of service January 1, 
2017 and after, HCPCS code G0475 will be priced and paid 
according to the CLFS. 
HCPCS code G0475 will be included in the January 2017 
CLFS, January 1, 2016 IOCE, the January 2016 OPPS and 
January 1, 2016 MPFSD. HCPCS code G0475 will be effective 
retroactive to April 13, 2015 in the IOCE & OPPS. 
A/B MACs (8) shall only accept claims submitted with a 
G0475, G0432, G0433, or G0435 with a Place of Service 
(POS) Code equal to 81 Independent Lab, and 11, Office. 
Deductible and coinsurance do not apply. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-18, 130.5
Diagnosis Code Reporting 
A claim that is submitted for HIV screening shall be submitted 
with one or more of the following diagnosis codes in the 
header and pointed to the line item: 
a. For claims where increased risk factors are reported:
ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis code V73.89/Z11.4 as primary
and ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis code V69.8/Z72.89, Z72.51,
Z72.52, or Z72.53, as secondary.
b. For claims where increased risk factors are NOT
reported: ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis code V73.89/Z11.4 as
primary only.
C. For claims for pregnant Medicare beneficiaries, the
following secondary diagnosis codes shall be submitted
in addition to primary ICD-9/ICD-10 diagnosis code
V73.89/Z11.4 to allow for more frequent screening than
once per 12-month period:
ICD-9: 
V22.0 
Supervision of normal first pregnancy 
Z34.00 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, 
unspecified trimester 
Z34.01 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, 
ICD-10: 
first trimester 
Z34.02 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, 
second trimester 
Z34.03 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, 
third trimester 
ICD-9: 
V22.1 
Supervision of other normal pregnancy 
Z34.80 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, 
unspecified trimester 
Z34.81 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, 
first trimester 
Z34.82 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, 
second trimester 
Z34.83 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, 
ICD-10: 
third trimester 
Z34.90 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, 
unspecified, unspecified trimester 
Z34.91 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, 
unspecified, first trimester 
Z34.92 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, 
unspecified, second trimester 
Z34.93 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, 
unspecified, third trimester 
ICD-9: 
V23.9 
Supervision of unspecified high-risk pregnancy 
009.90 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, 
unspecified trimester 
009.91 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, first 
trimester 
ICD-10: 
009.92 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, second 
trimester 
009.93 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, third 
trimester 
CPT° is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 140
Annual Wellness Visit (AWV) 
Pursuant to section 4103 of the Affordable Care Act of 
2010, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) 
amended section 411.15(a)(1) and 411.15(k){15) of 42 CFR 
{list of examples of routine physical examinations excluded 
from coverage) effective for services furnished on or after 
January 1, 2011. This expanded coverage is subject to certain 
eligibility and other limitations that allow payment for an annual 
wellness visit (AWV), including personalized prevention plan 
services (PPPS), for an individual who is no longer within 
12 months after the effective date of his or her first Medicare 
Part B coverage period, and has not received either an initial 
preventive physical examination {IPPE) or an AWV within the 
past 12 months. 
The AWV will include the establishment of, or update to, the 
individual's medical/family history, measurement of his/her 
height, weight, body-mass index (BMI) or waist circumference, 
and blood pressure (BP), with the goal of health promotion 
and disease detection and encouraging patients to obtain 
the screening and preventive services that may already be 
covered and paid for under Medicare Part B. CMS amended 
42 CFR §§411.15(a)(1) and 411.15(k)(15) to allow payment 
on or after January 1, 2011, for an AWV (as established 
at 42 CFR 410.15) when performed by qualified health 
professionals. 
Coverage is available for an AWV that meets the following 
requirements: 
1. It is performed by a health professional;
2. It is furnished to an eligible beneficiary who is no longer
within 12 months after the effective date of his/her first
Medicare Part B coverage period, and he/she has not
received either an IPPE or an AWV providing PPPS
within the past 12 months.
See Pub. 100-02,Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, chapter 15, 
section 280.5, for detailed policy regarding the AWV, including 
definitions of: (1) detection of cognitive impairment, (2) 
eligible beneficiary, (3) establishment of, or an update to, an 
individual's medical/family history, (4&5) first and subsequent 
AWVs providing PPPS, (6) health professional, and, (7) review 
of an individual's functional ability/level of safety. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 140.1
Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) Coding for the AWV 
The HCPCS codes listed below were developed for the AWV 
benefit effective January 1, 2011, for individuals whose initial 
enrollment is on or after January 1 , 2011. 
G0438 -Annual wellness visit; includes a personalized 
prevention plan of service (PPPS); first visit 
G0439 -Annual wellness visit; incl¾des a personalized 
prevention plan of service (PPPS); subsequent visit 
100-4, Chapter-18, 140.5
Coinsurance and Deductible 
Sections 4103 and 4104 of the Affordable Care Act provide 
for a waiver of Medicare coinsurance/copayment and Part B 
deductible requirements for the AWV effective for services 
furnished on or after January 1, 2011. 
735 
100-4, Chapter-18, 140.6
Common Working File (CWF) Edits 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after January 
1,2011, CWF shall reject: 
•
AWV claims for G0438 when a previous (first) AWV,
HCPCS code G0438, is paid in history regardless of 
when it occurred.
•
AWV claims when a previous AWV, G0438 or G0439, is
paid in history within the previous 12 months.
Beginning January 1, 2011 , AWV claims when a previous
IPPE, HCPCS code G0402, is paid in history within the
previous 12 months.
AWV claims (G0438 and G0439) billed for a date of
service within 12 months after the effective date of a
beneficiary's first Medicare Part B coverage period.
The following change shall be effective for claims processed 
on or after April 1, 2013. Typically, when a preventive service is 
posted to a beneficiary's utilization history, separate entries are 
posted for a "professional" service (the professional claim for 
the delivery of the service itself) and a "technical" service (the 
institutional claims for a facility fee). However, in the case of 
AWV services, since there is no separate payment for a facility 
fee, the AWV claim will be posted as the "professional" service 
only, regardless of whether it is paid on a professional claim or 
an institutional claim. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 150
Counseling to Prevent Tobacco Use 
Effective September 30, 2016, HCPCS codes G0436 
and G0437 are no longer valid. The services previously 
represented by G0436 and G0437 should be billed under 
existing CPT® codes 99406 (Smoking and tobacco use 
cessation counseling visit; intermediate, greater than 3 
minutes up to 10 minutes) and 99407 (Smoking and tobacco 
use cessation counseling visit; intensive, greater 10 minutes) 
respectively. See Chapter 32 section 12 for coverage and 
billing requirements for smoking cessation services. 
Note: For claims effective 10/1/16. CPT® Codes 99406 or 
99407 used for processing NCD210.4.1 
NOTE: Instructions in sections 150 thru 150.4 are no 
longer valid. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after August 
25, 2010, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
(CMS) will cover counseling to prevent tobacco use services 
for outpatient and hospitalized Medicare beneficiaries: 
1 . Who use tobacco, regardless of whether they have signs 
or symptoms of tobacco-related disease; 
2. Who are competent and alert at the time that counseling
is provided; and,
3. Whose counseling is furnished by a qualified physician or
other Medicare-recognized practitioner.
These individuals who do not have signs or symptoms of 
tobacco-related disease will be covered under Medicare Part 
B when the above conditions of coverage are met, subject to 
certain frequency and other limitations. 
Conditions of Medicare Part A and Medicare Part B coverage 
for counseling to prevent tobacco use are located in the 
Medicare National Coverage Determinations (NCO) Manual, 
Publication 100-3, chapter1, section 210.4.1. 
736 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-18, 150.1
Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) and Diagnosis Coding 
Effective September 30, 2016, HCPCS codes G0436 
and G0437 are no longer valid. The services previously 
represented by G0436 and G0437 should be billed under 
existing CPT® codes 99406 (Smoking and tobacco use 
cessation counseling visit; intermediate, greater than 3 
minutes up to 10 minutes) or 99407 (Smoking and tobacco 
use cessation counseling visit; intensive, greater 10 minutes) 
respectively. See Chapter 32 section 12 for coverage and 
billing requirements for smoking cessation services. 
The CMS has created two new CPT® codes for billing for 
tobacco cessation counseling services to prevent tobacco use 
for those individuals who use tobacco but do not have signs or 
symptoms of tobacco-related disease. 
The two CPT® codes 99406 or 99407 that currently are 
used for smoking and tobacco-use cessation counseling for 
symptomatic individuals. 
NOTE: The above G codes will not be active in NB MAC (A), 
(B), and (HHH) systems until January 1, 2011. Therefore, 
NB MAC (A), (B), and (HHH) shall advise non-outpatient 
perspective payment system (OPPS) providers to use unlisted 
code 99199 to bill for counseling to prevent tobacco use and 
tobacco-related disease services during the interim period of 
August 25, 2010, through December 31, 2010. 
On January 3, 2011, NB MAC (A), (B), and (HHH) systems 
will accept the new G codes for services performed on or after 
August 25, 2010. 
Two new C codes have been created for facilities paid under 
OPPS when billing for counseling to prevent tobacco use and 
tobacco-related disease services during the interim period of 
August 25, 2010, through December 31, 2010: 
C9801 - Smoking and tobacco cessation counseling visit 
for the asymptomatic patient, intermediate, greater than 
3 minutes, up to 1 0 minutes 
Short descriptor: Tobacco-use counsel 3-10 min 
C9802 - Smoking and tobacco cessation counseling visit for 
the asymptomatic patient, intensive, greater than 10 minutes 
Short descriptor: Tobacco-use counsel >1 0min 
Claims for smoking and tobacco use cessation counseling 
services 99406 or 99407 shall be submitted with the applicable 
diagnosis codes: 
ICD-10-CM 
ICD-10CM 
Code Description 
Code 
F17.210 
Nicotine dependence, cigarettes, uncomplicated 
F17.211 
Nicotine dependence, cigarettes, in remission 
F17.213 
Nicotine dependence, cigarettes, with withdrawal 
F17.218 
Nicotine dependence, cigarettes, with other nicotine-induced 
disorders 
F17.219 
Nicotine dependence, cigarettes, with unspecified nicotine-
induced disorders 
F17.220 
Nicotine dependence, chewing tobacco, uncomplicated 
F17.221 
Nicotine dependence, chewing tobacco, in remission 
F17.223 
Nicotine dependence, chewing tobacco, with withdrawal 
F17.228 
Nicotine dependence, chewing tobacco, with other nicotine-
induced disorders 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
ICD-10CM 
Code Description 
Code 
F17.229 
Nicotine dependence, chewing tobacco, with unspecified 
nicotine-induced disorders 
F17.290 
Nicotine dependence, other tobacco product, uncomplicated 
F17.291 
Nicotine dependence, other tobacco product, in remission 
F17.293 
Nicotine dependence, other tobacco product, with withdrawal 
F17.298 
Nicotine dependence, other tobacco product, with other 
nicotine-induced disorders 
F17.299 
Nicotine dependence, other tobacco product, with 
unspecified nicotine-induced disorders 
T65.211A 
Toxic effect of chewing tobacco, accidental (unintentional), 
initial encounter 
T65.212A 
Toxic effect of chewing tobacco, intentional self-harm, initial 
encounter 
T65.213A 
Toxic effect of chewing tobacco, assault, initial encounter 
T65.214A 
Toxic effect of chewing tobacco, undetermined, initial 
encounter 
T65.221A 
Toxic effect of tobacco cigarettes, accidental (unintentional), 
initial encounter 
T65.222A 
Toxic effect of tobacco cigarettes, intentional self-harm, initial 
encounter 
T65.223A 
Toxic effect of tobacco cigarettes, assault, initial encounter 
T65.224A 
Toxic effect of tobacco cigarettes, undetermined, initial 
encounter 
T65.291A 
Toxic effect of other tobacco and nicotine, accidental 
(unintentional), initial encounter 
T65.292A 
Toxic effect of other tobacco and nicotine, intentional self-
harm, initial encounter 
T65.293A 
Toxic effect of other tobacco and nicotine, assault, initial 
encounter 
T65.294A 
Toxic effect of other tobacco and nicotine, undetermined, 
initial encounter 
Z87.891 
Personal history of nicotine dependence 
A/B MAC (A), (B), and (HHH) shall allow payment for a 
medically necessary E/M service on the same day as the 
smoking and tobacco-use cessation counseling service when it 
is clinically appropriate. Physicians and qualified non-physician 
practitioners shall use an appropriate HCPCS code to report an 
E/M service with modifier -25 to indicate that the E/M service is 
a separately identifiable service from 99406 or 99407. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 150.2
A/B MACs (B) Billing Requirements 
A/B MACs (B) shall pay for counseling to prevent tobacco 
use services billed with code G0436 or G0437 for dates of 
service on or after January 1, 2011. A/B MACs (B) shall pay for 
counseling services billed with code 99199 for dates of service 
performed on or after August 25, 2010 through December 31, 
2010. The type of service (TOS) for each of the new codes is 1. 
A/B MACs (B) pay for counseling services billed based on the 
Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (MPFS). Deductible and 
coinsurance apply for services performed on August 25, 2010, 
through December 31, 2010. For claims with dates of service 
on and after January 1, 2011, coinsurance and deductible do 
not apply on G0436 and G0437. 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Physicians or qualified non-physician practitioners shall bill the 
A/B MACs (B) for counseling to prevent tobacco use services 
on Form CMS-1500 or an approved electronic format. 
NOTE: The above G codes will not be active in MACs' systems 
until January 1, 2011. Therefore, MACs shall advise providers 
to use unlisted code 99199 to bill for counseling to prevent 
tobacco use services during the interim period of August 25, 
2010, through December 31, 2010. 
NOTE: Effective September 30, 2016, HCPCS codes G0436 
and G0437 are no longer valid. The services previously 
represented by G0436 and G0437 should be billed under 
existing CPT® codes 99406 (Smoking and tobacco use 
cessation counseling visit; intermediate, greater than 
3 minutes up to 10 minutes) or 99407 (Smoking and tobacco 
use cessation counseling visit; intensive, greater 1 O minutes) 
respectively. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 150.2.1
A/B MAC (A) and (HHH) Billing Requirements 
The A/B MACs (A) and (HHH) shall pay for counseling to 
prevent tobacco use services with codes G0436 and G0437 
for dates of service on or after January 1, 2011. A/B MACs (A) 
and (HHH) shall pay for counseling services billed with code 
99199 for dates of service performed on or after August 25, 
2010, through December 31, 2010. For facilities paid under 
OPPS, A/B MACs (A) shall pay for counseling services billed 
with codes C9801 and C9802 for dates of service performed 
on or after August 25, 2010, through December 31, 2010. 
Claims for counseling to prevent tobacco use services should 
be submitted on Form CMS-1450 or its electronic equivalent. 
The applicable bill types are 12X, 13X, 22X, 23X, 34X, 71 X, 
77X, and 85X. 
Payment for outpatient services is as follows: 
Type of Facility 
Method of Payment 
Rural Health Centers (RHCs) TOB 
All-inclusive rate {AIR) for the 
71 X/Federally Qualified Health 
encounter 
Centers (FQHCs)TOB 77X 
Hospitals TOBs 12X and 13X 
OPPS for hospitals subject to OPPS 
MPFS for hospitals not subject to 
OPPS 
Indian Health Services (IHS) 
AIR for the encounter 
Hospitals TOB 13X 
Skilled Nursing Facilities (SNFs) 
Medicare Physician Fee Schedule 
TOBs 22X and 23X 
(MPFS) 
Home Health Agencies (HHAs) TOB 
MPFS 
34X 
Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs) 
Method I: Technical services are 
TOB 85X 
paid at 101 % of reasonable cost. 
Method II: technical services are 
paid at 101% of reasonable cost, 
and Professional services are paid at 
115% of the MPFS Data Base 
IHS CAHs TOB 85X 
Based on specific rate 
Maryland Hospitals 
Payment is based according to 
the Health Services Cost Review 
Commission (HSCRC). That is 94% 
of submitted charges subject to any 
unmet deductible, coinsurance, and 
non-covered charges policies. 
737 
Deductible and coinsurance apply for services performed on 
August 25, 2010, through December 31, 2010. For claims with 
dates of service on and after January 1, 2011, coinsurance and 
deductible do not apply for G0436 and G0437. 
Effective September 30, 2016, HCPCS codes G0436 
and G0437 are no longer valid. The services previously 
represented by G0436 and G0437 should be billed under 
existing CPT® codes 99406 (Smoking and tobacco use 
cessation counseling visit; intermediate, greater than 
3 minutes up to 10 minutes) or 99407 (Smoking and tobacco 
use cessation counseling visit; intensive, greater 10 minutes) 
respectively. 
NOTE: Section 4104 of ACA provided for a waiver of Medicare 
coinsurance and Part B deductible for this service effective on 
or after 1/1/11. Copayment/coinsurance waived; Deductible 
waived for HCPCS G0436 & G0437 through 9/30/16, for CPT® 
codes 99406 & 99407 effective 10/1 /16. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 150.4
Common Working File (CWF) 
The Common Working File (CWF) shall edit for the frequency 
of service limitations of counseling to prevent tobacco use 
sessions and smoking and tobacco-use cessation counseling 
services (99406, 99407) rendered to a beneficiary for a 
combined total of 8 sessions within a 12-month period. The 
beneficiary may receive another 8 sessions during a second 
or subsequent year after 11 full months have passed since 
the first Medicare covered counseling session was performed. 
To start the count for the second or subsequent 12-month 
period, begin with the month after the month in which the first 
Medicare covered counseling session was performed and 
count until 11 full months have elapsed. 
By entering the beneficiary's health insurance claim number 
(HICN), providers have the capability to view the number of 
sessions a beneficiary has received for this service via inquiry 
through CWF. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 160
Intensive Behavioral Therapy (IBT) for 
Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) 
For services furnished on or after November 8, 2011, the 
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) covers 
intensive behavioral therapy (IBT) for cardiovascular disease 
(CVD). See National Coverage Determinations (NCD) Manual 
(Pub. 100-03) §210.11 for complete coverage guidelines. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 160.1
Coding Requirements for IBT for CVD Furnished 
on or After November 8, 2011 
The following is the applicable Healthcare Procedural Coding 
System (HCPCS) code for IBT for CVD: 
G0446: Annual, face-to-face intensive behavioral therapy for 
cardiovascular disease, individual, 15 minutes 
A/B MACs (A) and (B) shall not apply deductibles or 
coinsurance to claim lines containing HCPCS code G0446. 
738 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-18, 160.2.1
Correct Place of Service (POS) Codes for IBT for 
CVD on Professional Claims 
A/B MACs (B) shall pay for IBT CVD, G0446 only when 
services are provided at the following POS: 
11- Physician's Office 
22- Outpatient Hospital 
49- Independent Clinic 
72- Rural Health Clinic 
Claims not submitted with one of the POS codes above will be 
denied. 
The following messages shall be used when Medicare 
contractors deny professional claims for incorrect POS: 
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 58: "Treatment 
was deemed by the payer to have been rendered in an 
inappropriate or invalid place of service." NOTE: Refer to 
the 835 Healthcare Policy Identification Segment (loop 2110 
Service Payment Information REF), if present. 
Remittance Advice Remark Code (RARC) N428: "Not covered 
when performed in this place of service." 
Medicare Summary Notice (MSN) 21.25: "This service was 
denied because Medicare only covers this service in certain 
settings." 
Spanish Version: El servicio fue denegado porque Medicare 
solamente lo cubre en ciertas situaciones." 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning financial 
liability to the beneficiary, if a claim is received with a GA 
modifier indicating a signed ABN is on file. 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning financial 
liability to the provider, if a claim is received with a GZ modifier 
indicating no signed ABN is on file. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 160.2.2
Provider Specialty Edits for IBT for CVD on 
Professional Claims 
A/B MACs (B) shall pay claims for HCPCS code G0446 only 
when services are submitted by the following provider specialty 
types found on the provider's enrollment record: 
01 = General Practice 
08 = Family Practice 
11 = Internal Medicine 
16 = Obstetrics/Gynecology 
37= Pediatric Medicine 
38 = Geriatric Medicine 
42= Certified Nurse Midwife 
50 = Nurse Practitioner 
89 = Certified Clinical Nurse Specialist 
97= Physician Assistant 
A/B MACs (B) shall deny claim lines for HCPCS code G0446 
performed by any other provider specialty type other than 
those listed above. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
The following messages shall be used when A/B MACs (B) 
deny IBT for CVD claims billed with invalid provider specialty 
types: 
CARC 185: "The rendering provider is not eligible to perform 
the service billed." 
NOTE: Refer to the 835 Healthcare Policy Identification 
Segment (loop 2110 Service Payment Information REF), if 
present. 
RARC N95: "This provider type/provider specialty may not bill 
this service." 
MSN 21.18: "This item or service is not covered when 
performed or ordered by this provider." 
Spanish version: "Este servicio no esta cubierto cuando es 
ordenado o rendido por este proveedor." 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning financial 
liability to the beneficiary, if a claim is received with a GA 
modifier indicating a signed ABN is on file. 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning financial 
liability to the provider, if a claim is received with a GZ modifier 
indicating no signed ABN is on file. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 160.3
Correct Types of Bill (TOB) for IBT for CVD on 
Institutional Claims 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after 
November 8, 2011, the following types of bill (TOB) may be 
used for I BT for CVD: 13X, 71 X, 77X, or 85X. All other TOB 
codes shall be denied. 
The following messages shall be used when Medicare 
contractors deny claims for G0446 when submitted on a TOB 
other than those listed above: 
CARC 170: Payment is denied when performed/billed by 
this type of provider. NOTE: Refer to the 835 Healthcare 
Policy Identification Segment (loop 2110 Service Payment 
Information REF), if present. 
RARC N428: Not covered when performed in this place of 
service." 
MSN 21.25: "This service was denied because Medicare only 
covers this service in certain settings." 
Spanish Version: El servicio fue denegado porque Medicare 
solamente lo cubre en ciertas situaciones." 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning financial 
liability to the beneficiary, if a claim is received with a GA 
modifier indicating a signed ABN is on file. 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning financial 
liability to the provider, if a claim is received with a GZ modifier 
indicating no signed ABN is on file. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 160.4
Frequency Edits for IBT for CVD Claims 
A/B MACs (A) and (B) shall allow claims for G0446 no more 
than once in a 12-month period. 
NOTE: 11 full months must elapse following the month in 
which the last G0446 IBT for CVD took place. 
MAC shall deny claims I BT for CVD claims that exceed one ( 1) 
visit every 12 months. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
A/B MACs (A) and (B) shall allow one professional service 
and one facility fee claim for each visit. 
The following messages shall be used when Medicare A/B 
MACs (A) and (B) deny IBT for CVD claims that exceed the 
frequency limit: 
CARC 119: "Benefit maximum for this time period or 
occurrence has been reached." 
RARC N362: "The number of days or units of service exceeds 
our acceptable maximum." 
MSN 20.5: "These services cannot be paid because your 
benefits are exhausted at this time." 
Spanish Version: "Estos servicios no pueden ser pagados 
porque sus beneficios se hanagotado." 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning financial 
liability to the beneficiary, if a claim is received with a GA 
modifier indicating a signed ABN is on file. 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning financial 
liability to the provider, if a claim is received with a GZ modifier 
indicating no signed ABN is on file. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 170.1
Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) Codes for Screening for STls and HIBC 
to Prevent STls 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after 
November 8, 2011, the claims processing instructions for 
payment of screening tests for STI will apply to the following 
HCPCS codes: 
•
Chlamydia: 86631, 86632, 87110, 87270, 87320, 87 490,
87491, 87810, 87800 (used for combined chlamydia and
gonorrhea testing)
•
Gonorrhea: 87590, 87591, 87850, 87800 (used for
combined chlamydia and gonorrhea testing)
•
Syphilis: 86592, 86593, 86780
•
Hepatitis B: (Hepatitis B surface antigen): 87340, 87341
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after 
November 8, 2011, implemented with the January 2, 2012, 
IOCE, the following HCPCS code is to be billed for HIBC to 
prevent STls 
•
G0445 -high-intensity behavioral counseling to prevent
sexually transmitted infections, face-to-face, individual,
includes: education, skills training, and guidance on how
to change sexual behavior, performed semi-annually,
30 minutes.
100-4, Chapter-18, 170.2
Diagnosis Code Reporting 
A claim that is submitted for screening chlamydia, gonorrhea, 
syphilis, and/or Hepatitis B shall be submitted with one or more 
of the following diagnosis codes in the header and pointed to 
the line item: 
a. For claims for screening for chlamydia, gonorrhea, and
syphilis in women at increased risk who are not pregnant
use the following ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes:
Z11.3 - Encounter for screening for infections with a 
predominantly sexual mode of transmission; 
•
And any of
•
Z72.89 - Other problems related to lifestyle, or
739 
Z72.51 - High risk heterosexual behavior, or 
Z72.52 - High risk homosexual behavior, or 
Z72.53 - High risk bisexual behavior. (These 
diagnosis codes are used to indicate high/ 
increased risk for STls). 
b. For claims for screening for syphilis in men at increased
risk use the following ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes:
Z11.3 - Encounter for screening for infections with a 
predominantly sexual mode of transmission; 
And any of 
Z72.89 - Other problems related to lifestyle, or 
Z72.51 - High risk heterosexual behavior, or 
Z72.52 - High risk homosexual behavior, or 
Z72.53 - High risk bisexual behavior. (These 
diagnosis codes are used to indicate high/ 
increased risk for STls). 
c.
For claims for screening for chlamydia and gonorrhea 
in pregnant women at increased risk for STls use the 
following ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes, if applicable: 
Z11.3 - Encounter for screening for infections with a 
predominantly sexual mode of transmission; and one 
of: 
Z72.89 - Other problems related to lifestyle, or 
Z72.51 - High risk heterosexual behavior, or 
Z72.52 - High risk homosexual behavior, or 
Z72.53 - High risk bisexual behavior (These 
diagnosis codes are used to indicate high/ 
increased risk for STls). 
and also one of the following. 
Code 
Z34.00 
Z34.01 
Z34.02 
Z34.03 
Z34.80 
Z34.81 
Z34.82 
Z34.83 
Description 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, unspecified 
trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, first trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, second 
trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, third trimester 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, unspecified 
trimester 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, first trimester 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, second 
trimester 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, third trimester 
Z34.90 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, 
unspecified trimester 
Z34.91 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, first 
trimester 
Z34.92 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, 
second trimester 
Z34.93 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, third 
trimester 
009.90 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, unspecified 
trimester 
009.91 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, first trimester 
009.92 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, second trimester 
009.93 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, third trimester 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
d. For claims for screening for syphilis in pregnant women
use the following ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes:
Code 
Z34.00 
Z34.01 
Z34.02 
Z34.03 
Z34.80 
Z34.81 
Z34.82 
Z34.83 
Z34.90 
Z34.91 
Z34.92 
Z34.93 
009.90 
009.91 
009.92 
009.93 
Z11 .3 - Encounter for screening for infections with a 
predominantly sexual mode of transmission: 
and one of 
Description 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, unspecified 
trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, first trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, second 
trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, third trimester 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, unspecified 
trimester 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, first trimester 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, second 
trimester 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, third trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, 
unspecified trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, first 
trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, 
second trimester 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, third 
trimester 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, unspecified trimester 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified. first trimester 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, second trimester 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, third trimester 
e.
For claims for screening for syphilis in pregnant women
at increased risk for STls use the following ICD-1 0-CM 
diagnosis codes:
Z11 .3 - Encounter for screening for infections with a 
predominantly sexual mode of transmission; and any 
of: 
Z72.89 - Other problems related to lifestyle, or 
Z72.51 - High risk heterosexual behavior, or 
Z72.52 - High risk homosexual behavior, or 
Z72.53 - High risk bisexual behavior 
and also one of the following: 
Code 
Description 
Z34.00 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, unspecified 
trimester 
Z34.01 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, first trimester 
Z34.02 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, second 
trimester 
Z34.03 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, third trimester 
Z34.80 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, unspecified 
trimester 
Z34.81 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, first trimester 
Z34.82 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, second trimester 
Z34.83 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, third trimester 
Z34.90 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, 
unspecified trimester 
Z34.91 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, first 
trimester 
Z34.92 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, 
second trimester 
7 40 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Code 
Description 
Z34.93 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, third 
trimester 
009.90 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, unspecified 
trimester 
009.91 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, first trimester 
009.92 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, second trimester 
009.93 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, third trimester 
f. For claims for screening for hepatitis B in pregnant
women use the following ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes:
. Z11.59 - Encounter for screening for other viral 
diseases, and any of 
. Z34.00 - Encounter for supervision of normal first 
pregnancy, unspecified trimester, or 
. Z34.80 - Encounter for supervision of other normal 
pregnancy, unspecified trimester, or 
. Z34.90 - Encounter for supervision of normal 
pregnancy, unspecified, unspecified trimester, or 
. 009.90 - Supervision of high risk pregnancy, 
unspecified, unspecified trimester. 
g. For claims for screening for hepatitis B in pregnant
women at increased risk for STls use the following
ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes:
. Z11.59 - Encounter for screening for other viral 
diseases, and 
Z72.89 - Other problems related to lifestyle, and 
any of 
. Z72.51 - High risk heterosexual behavior, or 
. Z72.52 - High risk homosexual behavior, or 
. Z72.53 - High risk bisexual behavior; 
. and also one of the following: 
Code 
Description 
Z34.00 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, unspecified 
trimester 
Z34.01 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, first trimester 
Z34.02 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, second 
trimester 
Z34.03 
Encounter for supervision of normal first pregnancy, third trimester 
Z34.80 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, unspecified 
trimester 
Z34.81 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, first trimester 
Z34.82 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, second 
trimester 
Z34.83 
Encounter for supervision of other normal pregnancy, third trimester 
Z34.90 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, 
unspecified trimester 
Z34.91 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, first 
trimester 
Z34.92 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, 
second trimester 
Z34.93 
Encounter for supervision of normal pregnancy, unspecified, third 
trimester 
009.90 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, unspecified 
trimester 
009.91 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, first trimester 
009.92 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, second trimester 
009.93 
Supervision of high risk pregnancy, unspecified, third trimester 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 170.3
Billing Requirements 
•
Effective for dates of service November 8, 2011, and
later, NB MACs (A) and (B) shall recognize HCPCS
code G0445 for HIBC. Medicare shall cover up to two
occurrences of G0445 when billed for IBC to prevent
STls. A claim that is submitted with HCPCS code G0445
for HIBC shall be submitted with ICD-9-CM diagnosis
code V69.8 or ICD-10-CM diagnosis code Z72.89.
•
NB MACs (A) and (B) shall pay for screening for
chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis (as indicated by the
presence of ICD-9-CM diagnosis code V? 4.5 or if ICD-10
is applicable, ICD-10-CM diagnosis code Z11.3); and/or
Hepatitis B (as indicated by the presence of ICD-9-CM
diagnosis code V73.89 or ICD-10-CM diagnosis code
Z11.59) as follows:
One annual occurrence of screening for chlamydia,
gonorrhea, and syphilis (i.e., 1 per 12-month period) in
women at increased risk who are not pregnant,
•
One annual occurrence of screening for syphilis
(i.e., 1 per 12-month period) in men at increased risk,
•
Up to two occurrences per pregnancy of screening for
chlamydia and gonorrhea in pregnant women who are at
increased risk for STls and continued increased risk for
the second screening,
•
One occurrence per pregnancy of screening for syphilis
in pregnant women,
•
Up to an additional two occurrences per pregnancy
of screening for syphilis in pregnant women if the
beneficiary is at continued increased risk for STls,
•
One occurrence per pregnancy of screening for Hepatitis
B in pregnant women, and,
One additional occurrence per pregnancy of screening
for Hepatitis B in pregnant women who are at continued
increased risk for STls.
100-4, Chapter-18, 170.4.1
Payment Method 
Payment for HIBC is based on the all-inclusive payment rate 
for rural health clinics (TOBs 71X) and federally qualified 
health centers (TOB 77X). Hospital outpatient departments 
(TOB 13X) are paid based on the outpatient prospective 
payment system and CAHs (TOB 85X) are paid based on 
reasonable cost. CAHs electing the optional method of 
payment for outpatient services are paid based on 115% of 
the lesser of the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (MPFS) 
amount or submitted charge. 
Effective for dates of service on and after November 8, 2011, 
deductible and coinsurance do not apply to claim lines with 
G0445. 
HCPCS code G0445 may be paid on the same date of service 
as an annual wellness visit, evaluation and management (E&M) 
code, or during the global billing period for obstetrical care, but 
only one G0445 may be paid on any one date of service. If billed 
on the same date of service with an E&M code, the E&M code 
should have a distinct diagnosis code other than the diagnosis 
code used to indicate high/increased risk for STls for the G0445 
service. An E&M code should not be billed when the sole reason 
for the visit is HIBC to prevent STls. 
For Medicare Part B physician and non-practitioner claims, 
payment for HIBC to prevent STls is based on the MPFS 
amount for G0445. 
741 
100-4, Chapter-18, 170.5
Specialty Codes and Place of Service (POS) 
Medicare provides coverage for screening for chlamydia, 
gonorrhea, syphilis, and/or Hepatitis B and HIBC to prevent 
STls only when ordered by a primary care practitioner 
(physician or non-physician) with any of the following specialty 
codes: 
•
01 -General Practice
•
08 -Family Practice
11 -Internal Medicine
•
16 -Obstetrics/Gynecology
37 -Pediatric Medicine
38 -Geriatric Medicine
•
42 -Certified Nurse Midwife
•
50 -Nurse Practitioner
•
89 -Certified Clinical Nurse Specialist
97 -Physician Assistant
Medicare provides coverage for HIBC to prevent STls only 
when provided by a primary care practitioner (physician or 
non-physician) with any of the specialty codes identified above. 
Medicare provides coverage for HIBC to prevent STls only 
when the POS billed is 11, 22, 49, or 71. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 180
Alcohol Screening and Behavioral Counseling 
Interventions in Primary Care to Reduce Alcohol 
Misuse 
The United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) 
defines alcohol misuse as risky, hazardous, or harmful drinking 
which places an individual at risk for future problems with 
alcohol consumption. In the general adult population, alcohol 
consumption becomes risky or hazardous when consuming: 
•
Greater than 7 drinks per week or greater than 3 drinks
per occasion for women and persons greater than 65 
years old. 
•
Greater than 14 drinks per week or greater than 4 drinks
per occasion for men 65 years old and younger.
100-4, Chapter-18, 180.1
Policy 
Claims with dates of service on and after October 14, 2011, 
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) will 
cover annual alcohol misuse screening (HCPCS code G0442) 
consisting of 1 screening session, and for those that screen 
positive, upto 4 brief, face-to-face behavioral counseling 
sessions (HCPCS code G0443) per 12-month period for 
Medicare beneficiaries, including pregnant women. 
Medicare beneficiaries that may be identified as having a need 
for behavioral counseling sessions include those: 
•
Who misuse alcohol, but whose levels or patterns of
alcohol consumption do not meet criteria for alcohol
dependence (defined as at least three of the following:
tolerance, withdrawal symptoms, impaired control,
preoccupation with acquisition and/or use, persistent
desire or unsuccessful efforts to quit, sustains social,
occupational, or recreational disability, use continues
despite adverse consequences); and,
•
Who are competent and alert at the time that counseling
is provided; and,
742 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Whose counseling is furnished by qualified primary 
care physicians or other primary care practitioners in a 
primary care setting. 
Once a Medicare beneficiary has agreed to behavioral 
counseling sessions, the counseling sessions are to be 
completed based on the 5As approach adopted by the United 
States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF.) The steps 
to the 5As approach are listed below. 
1. Assess: Ask about/assess behavioral health risk(s)
and factors affecting choice of behavior change goals/
methods.
2. Advise: Give clear, specific, and personalized behavior
change advice, including information about personal
health harms and benefits.
3. Agree: Collaboratively select appropriate treatment
goals and methods based on the patient's interest in and
willingness to change the behavior.
4. Assist: Using behavior change techniques (self-help
and/or counseling), aid the patient in achieving agreed­
upon goals by acquiring the skills, confidence, and
social/environmental supports for behavior change,
supplemented with adjunctive medical treatments when
appropriate.
5. Arrange: Schedule follow-up contacts (in person or by
telephone) to provide ongoing assistance/support and to 
adjust the treatment plan as needed, including referral to
more intensive or specialized treatment.
100-4, Chapter-18, 180.3
Professional Billing Requirements 
For claims with dates of service on and after October 14, 2011, 
CMS will allow coverage for annual alcohol misuse screening, 
15 minutes, G0442, and behavioral counseling for alcohol 
misuse, 15 minutes, G0443, only when services are submitted 
by the following provider specialties found on the provider's 
enrollment record: 
01 -General Practice 
08 -Family Practice 
11 -Internal Medicine 
16 -Obstetrics/Gynecology 
37 -Pediatric Medicine 
38 -Geriatric Medicine 
42 -Certified Nurse-Midwife 
50 -Nurse Practitioner 
89 -Certified Clinical Nurse Specialist 
97 -Physician Assistant 
Any claims that are not submitted from one of the provider 
specialty types noted above will be denied. 
For claims with dates of service on and after October 14, 2011, 
CMS will allow coverage for annual alcohol misuse screening, 
15 minutes, G0442, and behavioral counseling for alcohol 
misuse, 15 minutes, G0443, only when submitted with one of 
the following place of service (POS) codes: 
11 -Physician's Office 
22 -Outpatient Hospital 
49 -Independent Clinic 
71 -State or local public health clinic or 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Any claims that are not submitted with one of the POS codes 
noted above will be denied. 
The alcohol screening/counseling services are payable with 
another encounter/visit on the same day. This does not apply 
for IPPE. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 180.4
Claim Adjustment Reason Codes, Remittance 
Advice Remark Codes, Group Codes, and 
Medicare Summary Notice Messages 
A/B MACs (A) and (B) shall use the appropriate claim 
adjustment reason codes (CARCs), remittance advice remark 
codes (RARCs), group codes, or Medicare summary notice 
(MSN) messages when denying payment for alcohol misuse 
screening and alcohol misuse behavioral counseling sessions: 
For RHC and FQHC claims that contain screening for 
alcohol misuse HCPCS code G0442 and alcohol misuse 
counseling HCPCS code G0443 with another encounter/ 
visit with the same line item date of service, use group 
code CO and reason code: 
•
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 97 -The
benefit for this service is included in the payment/
allowance for another service/procedure that has
already been adjudicated. NOTE: Refer to the 835
Healthcare Policy Identification Segment (loop 2110
Service Payment Information REF) if present
Denying claims containing HCPCS code G0442 and 
HCPCS code G0443 submitted on a TOB other than 
13X, 71 X, 77X, and 85X: 
•
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 5 -The
procedure code/bill type is inconsistent with the place
of service. NOTE: Refer to the 835 Healthcare Policy
Identification Segment (loop 2110 Service Payment
Information REF) if present
•
Remittance Advice Remark Code (RARC) M77 -
Missing/incomplete/invalid place of service
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning
financial liability to the beneficiary, if a claim is received
with a GA modifier indicating a signed ABN is on file.
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning
financial liability to the provider, if a claim is received
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file.
Denying claims that contains more than one alcohol 
misuse behavioral counseling session G0443 on the 
same date of service: 
Medicare Summary Notice (MSN) 15.6 -The 
information provided does not support the need for 
this many services or items within this period of time. 
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 151 -
Payment adjusted because the payer deems the 
information submitted does not support this many/ 
frequency of services. 
Remittance Advice Remark Code (RARC) M86 -
Service denied because payment already made for 
same/similar procedure within set time frame. 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning 
financial liability to the beneficiary, if a claim is 
received with a GA modifier indicating a signed ABN 
is on file. 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning 
financial liability to the provider, if a claim is received 
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Denying claims that are not submitted from the 
appropriate provider specialties: 
•
Medicare Summary Notice (MSN) 21.18 -This item or
service is not covered when performed or ordered by
this provider.
•
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 185 -The
rendering provider is not eligible to perform the
service billed. NOTE: Refer to the 835 Healthcare
Policy Identification Segment (loop 211 O Service
Payment Information REF), if present.
Remittance Advice Remark Code (RARC) N95 -This
provider type/provider specialty may not bill this
service.
•
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning
financial liability to the beneficiary, if a claim is 
received with a GA modifier indicating a signed ABN 
is on file.
•
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning
financial liability to the provider, if a claim is received
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file.
Denying claims without the appropriate POS code: 
•
Medicare Summary Notice (MSN) 21.25 -This service
was denied because Medicare only covers this
service in certain settings.
•
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 58 -
Treatment was deemed by the payer to have been
rendered in an inappropriate or invalid place of
service. NOTE: Refer to the 835 Healthcare Policy
Identification Segment (loop 211 O Service Payment
Information REF) if present.
Remittance Advice Remark Code (RARC) N428 -Not
covered when performed in this place of service.
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning
financial liability to the beneficiary, if a claim is
received with a GA modifier indicating a signed ABN
is on file.
•
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning
financial liability to the provider, if a claim is received
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file.
Denying claims for alcohol misuse screening HCPCS 
code G0442 more than once in a 12-month period, and 
denying alcohol misuse counseling sessions HCPCS 
code G0443 more than four times in the same 12-month 
period: 
Medicare Summary Notice (MSN) 20.5 -These 
services cannot be paid because your benefits are 
exhausted at this time. 
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 119 -Benefit 
maximum for this time period or occurrence has been 
reached. 
Remittance Advice Remark Code (RARC) N362 -
The number of Days or Units of service exceeds our 
acceptable maximum. 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning 
financial liability to the beneficiary, if a claim is 
received with a GA modifier indicating a signed ABN 
is on file. 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning 
financial liability to the provider, if a claim is received 
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file. 
743 
100-4, Chapter-18, 190
Screening for Depression in Adults (Effective 
October 14, 2011) 
A. Coverage Requirements 
Effective October 14, 2011, the Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services (CMS) will cover annual screening up 
to 15 minutes for Medicare beneficiaries in primary care 
settings that have staff-assisted depression care supports in 
place to assure accurate diagnosis, effective treatment, and 
follow-up. Various screening tools are available for screening 
for depression. CMS does not identify specific depression 
screening tools. Rather, the decision to use a specific tool is 
at the discretion of the clinician in the primary care setting. 
Screening for depression is non-covered when performed 
more than one time in a 12-month period. The Medicare 
coinsurance and Part B deductible are waived for this 
preventive service. 
Additional information on this National Coverage Determination 
(NCO) for Screening for Depression in Adults can be found in 
Publication 100-03, NCO Manual, Section 210.9. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 190.1
A/B MAC (B) Billing Requirements 
Effective October 14, 2011, contractors shall recognize new 
HCPCS G0444, annual depression screening, 15 minutes. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 190.2
Frequency 
A/B MACs (B) shall pay for annual depression screening, 
G0444, no more than once in a 12-month period. 
NOTE: 11 full months must elapse following the month in 
which the last annual depression screening took place. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 190.3
Place of Service (POS) 
A/B MACs (B) shall pay for annual depression screening 
claims, G0444, only when services are provided at the 
following places of service (POS): 
11 -Office 
22 -Outpatient Hospital 
49 -Independent Clinic 
71 -State or Local Public Health Clinic 
100-4, Chapter-18, 200
Intensive Behavioral Therapy for Obesity 
(Effective November 29, 2011) 
The United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) 
found good evidence that body mass index (BMI) is a reliable 
and valid indicator for identifying adults at increased risk for 
mortality and morbidity due to overweight and obesity. It also 
good evidence that high intensity counseling combined with 
behavioral interventions in obese adults (as defined by a BMI 
2:30 kg/m2) produces modest, sustained weight loss. 
744 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-18, 200.1
Policy 
For services furnished on or after November 29, 2011, 
Medicare will cover Intensive Behavioral Therapy for Obesity. 
Medicare beneficiaries with obesity (BMI 2:30 kg/m2) who are 
competent and alert at the time that counseling is provided 
and whose counseling is furnished by a qualified primary care 
physician or other primary care practitioner in a primary care 
setting are eligible for: 
One face-to-face visit every week for the first month; 
One face-to-face visit every other week for months 2-6; 
•
One face-to-face visit every month for months 7-12,
if the beneficiary meets the 3kg (6.6 lbs.) weight loss
requirement during the first 6 months as discussed
below. 
The counseling sessions are to be completed based on 
the 5As approach adopted by the United States Preventive 
Services Task Force (USPSTF.) The steps to the 5As approach 
are listed below: 
1. Assess: Ask abouUassess behavioral health risk(s)
and factors affecting choice of behavior change goals/
methods.
2. Advise: Give clear, specific, and personalized behavior
change advice, including information about personal
health harms and benefits.
3. Agree: Collaboratively select appropriate treatment
goals and methods based on the patient's interest in and
willingness to change the behavior.
4. Assist: Using behavior change techniques (self-help
and/or counseling), aid the patient in achieving agreed­
upon goals by acquiring the skills, confidence, and
social/environmental supports for behavior change,
supplemented with adjunctive medical treatments when
appropriate.
5. Arrange: Schedule follow-up contacts (in person or by
telephone) to provide ongoing assistance/support and to
adjust the treatment plan as needed, including referral to
more intensive or specialized treatment.
Medicare will cover Face-to-Face Behavioral Counseling 
for Obesity, 15 minutes (G0447), Face-to-face behavioral 
counseling for obesity, group (2-10), 30 minute(s) (G0473), 
along with 1 of the ICD-9-CM codes for BMI 30.0-BMI 70 
(V85.30-V85.39 and V85.41-V85.45), up to 22 sessions in a 
12-month period for Medicare beneficiaries. The Medicare
coinsurance and Part B deductible are waived for this
preventive service.
NOTE: Effective for claims with dates of service on or after 
January 1, 2015, codes G0473 and G0447 can be billed for a 
total of no more than 22 sessions in a 12-month period. 
A/B MACs (A) and (B) shall note the appropriate ICD-10-CM 
code(s) that are listed below for future implementation. A/B 
MACs (A) and (B) shall track the ICD-10-CM codes and 
ensure that the updated edit is turned on when ICD-10 is 
implemented. 
ICD-10-CM 
Description 
Z68.30 
BMI 30.0-30.9, adult 
Z68.31 
BMI 31.0-31.9, adult 
Z68.32 
BMI 32.0-32.9, adult 
Z68.33 
BMI 33.0-33.9, adult 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
ICD-10-CM 
Description 
Z68.34 
BMI 34.0-34.9, adult 
Z68.35 
BMI 35.0-35.9, adult 
Z68.36 
BMI 36.0-36.9, adult 
Z68.37 
BMI 37.0-37.9, adult 
Z68.38 
BMI 38.0-38.9, adult 
Z68.39 
BMI 39.0-39.9, adult 
Z68.41 
BMI 40.0-44.9, adult 
Z68.42 
BMI 45.0--49.9, adult 
Z68.43 
BMI 50.0-59.9, adult 
Z68.44 
BMI 60.0-69.9, adult 
Z68.45 
BMI 70 or greater, adult 
See Pub. 100-03, Medicare National Coverage Determinations 
Manual, §210.12 for complete coverage guidelines. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 200.3
Professional Billing Requirements 
CMS will allow coverage for Face-to-Face Behavioral 
Counseling for Obesity, 15 minutes, (G044 7), Face-to-face 
behavioral counseling for obesity, group (2-10), 30 minute(s) 
(G0473), along with 1 of the ICD-9-CM codes for BMI 30.0-
BMI 70 (V85.30-V85.39 and V85.41-V85.45), or 1 of the 
ICD-10-CM codes for BMI 30.0-BMI 70 (Z68.30-Z68.39 
and Z68.41-Z68.45) only when services are submitted by 
the following provider specialties found on the provider's 
enrollment record: 
01 - General Practice 
08 - Family Practice 
11 - Internal Medicine 
16 - Obstetrics/Gynecology 
37 - Pediatric Medicine 
38 - Geriatric Medicine 
50 - Nurse Practitioner 
89 - Certified Clinical Nurse Specialist 
97 - Physician Assistant 
Any claims that are not submitted from one of the provider 
specialty types noted above will be denied. 
CMS will allow coverage for Face-to-Face Behavioral 
Counseling for Obesity, 15 minutes, (G0447), Face-to-face 
behavioral counseling for obesity, group (2-10), 30 minute(s) 
(G0473), along with 1 of the ICD-9-CM codes for BMI 30.0-
BMI 70 (V85.30-V85.39 and V85.41-V85.45), or with 1 of the 
ICD-10-CM codes for BMI 30.0-BMI 70 (Z68.30-Z68.39 and 
Z68.41-Z68.45) only when submitted with one of the following 
place of service (POS) codes: 
11 - Physician's Office 
19 - Off Campus-Outpatient Hospital 
22 - Outpatient Hospital 
49 - Independent Clinic 
71 - State or Local Public Health Clinic 
Any claims that are not submitted with one of the POS codes 
noted above will be denied. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
NOTE: HCPCS Code G0447 is effective November 29, 2011. 
HCPCS Code G0473 is effective January 1, 2015. 
100-4, Chapter-18, 200.4
Claim Adjustment Reason Codes (CARCs), 
Remittance Advice Remark Codes (RARCs), 
Group Codes, and Medicare Summary Notice 
(MSN) Messages 
A/B MACs (A) and (B) shall use the appropriate claim 
adjustment reason codes (CARCs), remittance advice 
remark codes (RARCs), group codes, or Medicare summary 
notice (MSN) messages when denying payment for obesity 
counseling sessions: 
•
Denying services submitted on a TOB other than 13X
and 85X:
CARC 171 - Payment is denied when performed by 
this type of provider on this type of facility. NOTE:
Refer to the 835 Healthcare Policy Identification 
Segment (loop 2110 Service Payment Information 
REF), if present. 
RARC N428 - Not covered when performed in this 
place of service. 
MSN 16.2 - This service cannot be paid when 
provided in this location/facility. 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning 
financial responsibility to the beneficiary (if a claim is 
received with a GA modifier indicating a signed ABN 
is on file). 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning 
financial liability to the provider (if a claim is received 
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file). 
NOTE: For modifier GZ, use CARC 50 and MSN 8.81. 
Denying services for obesity counseling sessions 
HCPCS code G0473 or G0447 with 1 of the ICD-9-CM 
codes (V85.30-V85.39 or V85.41-V85.45) or with one of 
the ICD-10-CM codes (Z68.30-Z68.39 or Z68.41-Z68.45) 
when billed for a total of more than 22 sessions in the 
same 12-month period: 
CARC 119 - Benefit maximum for this time period or 
occurrence has been reached. 
RARC N362 - The number of days or units of service 
exceeds our acceptable maximum. 
MSN 20.5 - These services cannot be paid because 
your benefits are exhausted at this time. 
Spanish Version: "Estos servicios no pueden ser 
pagados porque sus beneficios se han agotado." 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning 
financial responsibility to the beneficiary (if a claim is 
received with a GA modifier indicating a signed ABN 
is on file). 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning 
financial liability to the provider (if a claim is received 
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file). 
NOTE: For modifier GZ, use CARC 50 and MSN 8.81. 
Denying claim lines for obesity counseling sessions 
HCPCS code G0473 or G0447 without 1 of the 
745 
746 
appropriate ICD-9-CM codes (V85.30-V85.39 or 
V85.41-V85.45) or 1 of the ICD-10-CM codes 
(Z68.30-Z68.39 or Z68.41-Z68.45): 
CARC 167 - "This (these) diagnosis(es) is (are) not 
covered. NOTE: Refer to the ASC X 12 835 Healthcare 
Policy Identification Segment (loop 211 O Service 
Payment Information REF), if present." 
RARC N386 - This decision was based on a National 
Coverage Determination (NCO). An NCO provides 
a coverage determination as to whether a particular 
item or service is covered. A copy of this policy is 
available at www.cms.gov/mcd/search.asp. If you do 
not have web access, you may contact the contractor 
to request a copy of the NCO. 
MSN 14.9 - "Medicare cannot pay for this service for 
the diagnosis shown on the claim." 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) assigning 
financial responsibility to the beneficiary (if a claim is 
received with a GA modifier indicating a signed ABN 
is on file). 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning 
financial liability to the provider (if a claim is received 
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file). 
NOTE: For modifier GZ, use CARC 50 and MSN 8.81. 
Denying claim lines without the appropriate POS code: 
CARC 5 - The procedure code/bill type is inconsistent 
with the place of service. NOTE: Refer to the 835 
Healthcare Policy Identification Segment (loop 211 O 
Service Payment Information REF), if present. 
RARC M77 - Missing/incomplete/invalid place of 
service. 
MSN 21.25 - This service was denied because 
Medicare only covers this service in certain settings. 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning 
financial liability to the provider (if a claim is received 
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file). 
NOTE: For modifier GZ, use CARC 50 and MSN 8.81. 
Denying claim lines that are not submitted from the 
appropriate provider specialties: 
CARC 8 - "The procedure code is inconsistent with the 
provider type/specialty (taxonomy). NOTE: Refer to 
the 835 Healthcare Policy Identification Segment (loop 
2110 Service Payment Information REF), if present." 
RARC N95 - "This provider type/provider specialty 
may not bill this service." 
MSN 21.18 - "This item or service is not covered when 
performed or ordered by this provider." 
Group Code CO (Contractual Obligation) assigning 
financial liability to the provider (if a claim is received 
with a GZ modifier indicating no signed ABN is on file). 
NOTE: For modifier GZ, use CARC 50 and MSN 8.81. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-20, 30.1.2
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulator 
(TENS) 
In order to permit an attending physician time to determine 
whether the purchase of a TENS is medically appropriate for a 
particular patient, contractors pay 10 percent of the purchase 
price of the item for each of 2 months. The purchase price and 
payment for maintenance and servicing are determined under 
the same rules as any other frequently purchased item, except 
that there is no reduction in the allowed amount for purchase 
due to the two months rental. 
Effective June 8, 2012, CMS will allow coverage for TENS use 
in the treatment of chronic low back pain (CLBP) only under 
specific conditions which are described in the NCO Manual, 
Pub. 100-03, chapter 1 Section 160.27. 
100-4, Chapter-20, 100.2.2
Evidence of Medical Necessity for Parenteral and 
Enteral Nutrition (PEN) Therapy 
The PEN coverage is determined by information provided 
by the treating physician and the PEN supplier. A completed 
certification of medical necessity (CMN) must accompany and 
support initial claims for PEN to establish whether coverage 
criteria are met and to ensure that the PEN therapy provided 
is consistent with the attending or ordering physician's 
prescription. DME MACs ensure that the CMN contains 
pertinent information from the treating physician. Uniform 
specific medical data facilitate the review and promote 
consistency in coverage determinations and timelier claims 
processing. 
The medical and prescription information on a PEN CMN can 
be most appropriately completed by the treating physician 
or from information in the patient's records by an employee 
of the physician for the physician's review and signature. 
Although PEN suppliers sometimes may assist in providing 
the PEN services, they cannot complete the CMN since they 
do not have the same access to patient information needed to 
properly enter medical or prescription information. A/B MACs 
(B) and DME MACs use appropriate professional relations
issuances, training sessions, and meetings to ensure that all
persons and PEN suppliers are aware of this limitation of their
role.
When properly completed, the PEN CMN includes the 
elements of a prescription as well as other data needed 
to determine whether Medicare coverage is possible. This 
practice will facilitate prompt delivery of PEN services and 
timely submittal of the related claim. 
100-4, Chapter-20, 160.1
Billing for Total Parenteral Nutrition and Enteral 
Nutrition Furnished to Part B Inpatients 
Inpatient Part A hospital or SNF care includes total parenteral 
nutrition (TPN) systems and enteral nutrition (EN). 
For inpatients for whom Part A benefits are not payable (e.g., 
benefits are exhausted or the beneficiary is entitled to Part B 
only), total parenteral nutrition (TPN) systems and enteral 
nutrition (EN) delivery systems are covered by Medicare as 
prosthetic devices when the coverage criteria are met. When 
these criteria are met, the medical equipment and medical 
supplies (together with nutrients) being used comprise covered 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
prosthetic devices for coverage purposes rather than durable 
medical equipment. However, reimbursement rules relating to 
DME continue to apply to such items. 
When a facility supplies TPN or EN systems that meet the 
criteria for coverage as a prosthetic device to an inpatient 
whose care is not covered under Part A, the facility must 
bill one of the DME MACs. Additionally, HHAs, SNFs, and 
hospitals that provide PEN supplies, equipment and nutrients 
as a prosthetic device under Part B must use the ASC X 12 837 
professional claim format or if permissible the Form CMS-1500 
paper form to bill the appropriate DME MAC. The DME MAC is 
determined according to the residence of the beneficiary. Refer 
to § 10 for jurisdiction descriptions. 
NB MACs (A) and (HHH) return claims containing PEN 
charges for Part B services where the bill type is 12x, 13x, 22x, 
23x, 32x, 33x, or 34x with instructions to the provider to bill the 
DME MAC. 
100-4, Chapter-23, 60.3
Gap-filling DMEPOS Fees 
Gap-filling is used in establishing fee schedule amounts 
for new DMEPOS items or services that do not have a 
fee schedule pricing history. If a HCPCS code is new and 
describes items and services that have a fee schedule pricing 
history (classified and paid for previously under a different 
code, including codes for miscellaneous items, e.g., E1399, 
and including fee schedule amounts established by CMS or 
the MACs), the fee schedule amounts for the new code are 
established using the process included in section 60.3.1 of this 
manual. 
All DMEPOS items and services subject to payment on a 
fee schedule basis as mandated by sections 1833(o)(2)(A), 
1834(a), (h), and (i) of the Social Security and/or by regulations 
at 42 CFR 414.102 and 414.210 must have national fee 
schedule amounts established by CMS or interim local fee 
schedule amounts established by the MACs for use in paying 
claims for the items and services. Effective February 28, 
2022, interim local fee schedule amounts established by the 
MACs for paying claims on an interim basis are considered a 
fee schedule pricing history for continuity of pricing purposes 
under §60.3.1 below for the time before national fee schedule 
amounts are established, but can be considered by CMS in 
developing national fee schedule amounts. Once national fee 
schedule amounts are established for an item or service, the 
national fee schedule amounts become the new fee schedule 
pricing history for the item or service for continuity of pricing 
purposes under §60.3.1 below. Local fee schedule amounts 
established by the MACs for use in paying claims prior to 
February 28, 2022 are considered a fee schedule pricing 
history for continuity of pricing purposes under §60.3.1 below. 
The DME MACs or NB MACs must establish fee schedule 
amounts for DMEPOS items and services billed using HCPCS 
codes for miscellaneous items not otherwise classified under 
the HCPCS (e.g., E1399, L2999, and L8699). Once the fee 
schedule amounts are established for DMEPOS items and 
services billed using HCPCS codes for miscellaneous items, 
these fee schedule amounts would only change when update 
factors are applied, to correct an error in the calculation of the 
fee schedule amounts, or based on program instructions. 
For DME items, the DME MACs must apply the DME payment 
method depending on the DME class the item falls under 
(e.g., the item would be paid on a capped rental basis if it is 
expensive, not customized, not oxygen and oxygen equipment, 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
and does not require frequent and substantial servicing in 
order to avoid risk to the patient). 
National fee schedule amounts established by CMS and 
interim local fee schedule amounts established by the DME 
MACs and NB MACs Part B shall be gap-filled for items 
for which charge data were unavailable during the fee 
schedule data base year using the fee schedule amounts 
for comparable equipment. Fee schedule amounts for new 
HCPCS codes for items and services without a fee schedule 
pricing history are established using existing fee schedule 
amounts for comparable items when items with existing fee 
schedule amounts are determined to be comparable to the 
new items and services. A comparison can be based on, but 
not limited to the following components: physical, mechanical, 
electrical, function and intended use, and additional attributes 
and features. When examining whether an item is comparable 
to another item, the analysis can be based on the items as a 
whole, its subcomponents, or a combination of items. A new 
product does not need to be comparable within each category, 
and there is no prioritization to the categories. 
Examples of Attributes in Each Component Category 
•
Physical: Aesthetics, Design, Customized vs. Standard,
Material, Portable, Size, Temperature Range/Tolerance,
Weight
•
Mechanical: Automated vs. Manual, Brittleness, Ductility, 
Durability, Elasticity, Fatigue, Flexibility, Hardness, Load 
Capacity, Flow-Control, Permeability, Strength 
•
Electrical: Capacitance, Conductivity, Dielectric Constant,
Frequency, Generator, Impedance, Piezo-electric, Power,
Power Source, Resistance
•
Function and Intended Use: Function, Intended Use
•
Additional Attributes and Features: "Smart", Alarms,
Constraints, Device Limitations, Disposable, Parts,
Features, Invasive vs. Non-Invasive.
If unable to identify comparable item(s), other sources of 
pricing data can be used to calculate the gap-filled fee 
schedule amount for the new item. These sources include 
using supplier or commercial price lists with prices in effect 
during the fee schedule data base year. Data base "year" 
refers to the time period mandated by the statute and/or 
regulations from which Medicare allowed charge data is to be 
extracted in order to compute the fee schedule amounts for 
the various DMEPOS payment categories. For example, the 
fee schedule base year for inexpensive or routinely purchased 
durable medical equipment is the 12 month period ending June 
30, 1987. Supplier price lists include catalogues and other 
retail price lists (such as internet retail prices) that provide 
information on commercial pricing for the item. Potential 
appropriate sources for such commercial pricing information 
can also include payments made by Medicare Advantage 
plans as well as verifiable information from supplier invoices 
and non-Medicare payer data. DME MACs and NB MACs 
shall gap-fill based on current instructions released each year 
for implementing and updating the payment amounts. 
If the only available price information is from a period other 
than the base period, apply the deflation factors that are 
included in the current year implementation instructions 
against current pricing in order to approximate the base year 
price for gap-filling purposes. 
747 
The deflation factors for gap-filling purposes are: 
Year• 
OX 
CR 
PO 
SD 
1987 
0.965 
0.971 
0.974 
n/a 
1988 
0.928 
0.934 
0.936 
n/a 
1989 
0.882 
0.888 
0.890 
n/a 
1990 
0.843 
0.848 
0.851 
nla 
1991 
0.805 
0.810 
0.813 
n/a 
1992 
0.781 
0.786 
0.788 
n/a 
1993 
0.758 
0.763 
0.765 
0.971 
1994 
0.740 
0.745 
0.747 
0.947 
1995 
0.718 
0.723 
0.725 
0.919 
1996 
0.699 
0.703 
0.705 
0.895 
1997 
0.683 
0.687 
0.689 
0.875 
1998 
0.672 
0.676 
0.678 
0.860 
1999 
0.659 
0.663 
0.665 
0.844 
2000 
0.635 
0.639 
0.641 
0.813 
2001 
0.615 
0.619 
0.621 
0.788 
2002 
0.609 
0.613 
0.614 
0.779 
2003 
0.596 
0.600 
0.602 
0.763 
2004 
0.577 
0.581 
0.582 
0.739 
2005 
0.563 
0.567 
0.568 
0.721 
2006 
0.540 
0.543 
0.545 
0.691 
2007 
0.525 
0.529 
0.530 
0.673 
2008 
0.500 
0.504 
0.505 
0.641 
2009 
0.508 
0.511 
0.512 
0.650 
2010 
0.502 
0.506 
0.507 
0.643 
2011 
0.485 
0.488 
0.490 
0.621 
2012 
0.477 
0.480 
0.482 
0.611 
2013 
0.469 
0.472 
0.473 
0.600 
2014 
0.459 
0.462 
0.464 
0.588 
2015 
0.459 
0.462 
0.463 
0.588 
2016 
0.454 
0.457 
0.458 
0.582 
2017 
0.447 
0.450 
0.451 
0.572 
2018 
0.435 
0.437 
0.439 
0.556 
2019 
0.427 
0.430 
0.431 
0.547 
2020 
0.425 
0.427 
0.429 
0.544 
2021 
0.403 
0.406 
0.407 
0.516 
* Year price in effect 
Payment Category Key: 
ox 
Oxygen & oxygen equipment (DME) 
CR 
Capped rental (DME) 
IN 
Inexpensive/routinely purchased (DME) 
FS 
Frequently serviced (DME) 
SU 
DME supplies 
PO 
Prosthetics & orthotics 
SD 
Surgical dressings 
PE 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
0.973 
0.951 
0.936 
0.918 
0.885 
0.857 
0.848 
0.830 
0.804 
0.784 
0.752 
0.732 
0.697 
0.707 
0.700 
0.676 
0.665 
0 653 
0.640 
0.639 
0.633 
0.623 
0.605 
0.595 
0.592 
0.561 
OS 
Ostomy, tracheostomy, and urological supplies 
PE 
Parental and enteral nutrition 
748 
SC 
IL 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
nla 
n/a 
n/a 
nla 
nla 
n/a 
nla 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
0.983 
0.980 
0.963 
0.978 
0.962 
0.969 
0.952 
0.953 
0.937 
0.927 
0. 911
0.912 
0.896 
0.906 
0.891 
0.859 
0.845 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
TS 
Therapeutic Shoes 
SC 
Splints and Casts 
IL 
lntraocular Lenses inserted in a physician's office IN, FS, OS and SU 
category deflation factors=PO deflation factors 
After deflation, the result must be increased by 1.7 percent and 
by the cumulative covered item update to complete the gap­
filling (e.g., an additional .6 percent for a 2002 DME fee). 
Note that when gap-filling for capped rental items, it is 
necessary to first gap-fill the purchase price then compute 
the base period fee schedule at 10 percent of the base period 
purchase price. 
For used equipment, establish fee schedule amounts at 
75 percent of the fee schedule amount for new equipment. 
If within 5 years of establishing fee schedule amounts using 
supplier or commercial prices, the supplier or commercial 
prices decrease by less than 15 percent, CMS can make a 
one-time adjustment to the fee schedule amounts using the 
new prices. The new supplier or commercial prices would be 
used to establish the new fee schedule amounts in the same 
way that the older prices were used, including application of 
the deflation formula of this section. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 11.3.1
Policy 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after April 13, 
2021, contractors shall accept and pay for autologous platelet­
rich plasma (PRP) for the treatment of chronic non-healing 
diabetic wounds for a duration of 20 weeks, when prepared 
by devices whose Food and Drug Administration-cleared 
indications include the management of exuding cutaneous 
wounds, such as diabetic ulcers, in accordance with the 
coverage criteria outlined in Publication 100-03, chapter 1, 
section 270.3, of the National Coverage Determinations (NCO) 
Manual. 
NOTE: Coverage of PRP services for the treatment of chronic 
non-healing diabetic wounds that are performed more than 
20 weeks after the date of the first PRP service shall be 
determined by the local Medicare Administrative Contractor 
(MAC). 
Coverage of autologous PRP for the treatment of all other 
chronic non-healing wounds (nondiabetic) will be determined 
by local MACs under section 1862(a}(1 )(A) of the Social 
Security Act. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 11.3.2
Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) Codes and Diagnosis Coding 
Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) 
Code 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after April 13, 
2021, Medicare providers shall report HCPCS code GO46O 
for PRP services for the treatment of chronic non-healing 
nondiabetic wounds. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after April 13, 
2021, Medicare providers shall report HCPCS code GO465 for 
PRP services for the treatment of chronic non-healing diabetic 
wounds under the conditions and criteria outlined in NCO 
Manual Section 270.3. 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
If ICD-10 Diagnosis coding is applicable 
For claims with dates of service on or after April 13, 2021, 
PRP, for the treatment of chronic non-healing diabetic wounds 
must be billed reporting both an ICD-10 diagnosis code for 
diabetes mellitus and an ICD-10 diagnosis code for chronic 
ulcers. 
•
Two diagnosis codes are required- Diabetic Mellitus plus
Chronic Ulcer
Diabetes Mellitus 
E0S.621 
Diabetes mellitus due to underlying 
condition with foot ulcer 
E0S.622 
E09.621 
E09.622 
E10.621 
E10.622 
E11.621 
E11.622 
E13.621 
E13.622 
Chronic Ulcer 
L97.111 
L97.112 
L97.113 
L97.115 
L97.116 
L97.118 
L97.114 
L97.121 
L97.122 
L97.123 
L97.124 
L97.125 
Diabetes mellitus due to underlying 
condition with other skin ulcer 
Drug or chemical induced diabetes mellitus 
with foot ulcer 
Drug or chemical induced diabetes mellitus 
with other skin ulcer 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus with foot ulcer 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus with other skin 
ulcer 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus with foot ulcer 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus with other skin 
ulcer 
Other specified diabetes mellitus with foot 
ulcer 
Other specified diabetes mellitus with other 
skin ulcer 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right thigh 
limited to breakdown of skin 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right thigh 
with fat layer exposed 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right thigh 
with necrosis of muscle 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right thigh 
with muscle involvement without evidence 
of necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right thigh 
with bone involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right thigh 
with other specified severity 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right thigh 
with necrosis of bone 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left thigh 
limited to breakdown of skin 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left thigh with 
fat layer exposed 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left thigh with 
necrosis of muscle 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left thigh with 
necrosis of bone 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left thigh with 
muscle involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
CP.,. is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
L97.126 
L97.128 
L97.211 
L97.212 
L97.213 
L97.214 
L97.215 
L97.216 
L97.218 
L97.221 
L97.222 
L97.223 
L97.224 
L97.225 
L97.226 
L97.228 
L97.315 
L97.316 
L97.318 
L97.321 
L97.322 
L97.323 
L97.324 
L97.325 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left thigh 
with bone involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left thigh with 
other specified severity 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right calf 
limited to breakdown of skin 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right calf with 
fat layer exposed 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right calf with 
necrosis of muscle 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right calf with 
necrosis of bone 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right calf with 
muscle involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right calf 
with bone involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right calf with 
other specified severity 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left calf 
limited to breakdown of skin 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left calf with 
fat layer exposed 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left calf with 
necrosis of muscle 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left calf with 
necrosis of bone 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left calf with 
muscle involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left calf with 
bone involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left calf with 
other specified severity 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right ankle 
with muscle involvement without evidence 
of necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right ankle 
with bone involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right ankle 
with other specified severity 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left ankle 
limited to breakdown of skin 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left ankle 
with fat layer exposed 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left ankle 
with necrosis of muscle 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left ankle 
with necrosis of bone 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left ankle 
with muscle involvement without evidence 
of necrosis 
749 
L97.326 
L97.328 
L97.411 
L97.412 
L97.413 
L97.414 
L97.415 
L98.416 
L98.418 
L98.421 
L98.422 
L98.423 
L98.424 
L98.425 
L98.426 
L98.428 
L98.491 
L98.492 
L98.493 
L98.494 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left ankle 
with bone involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of left ankle 
with other specified severity 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right heel 
and midfoot limited to breakdown of skin 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right heel 
and midfoot with fat layer exposed 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right heel 
and midfoot with necrosis of muscle 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right heel 
and midfoot with necrosis of bone 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of right heel 
and midfoot with muscle involvement 
without evidence of necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of buttock with 
bone involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of buttock with 
other specified severity 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of back limited 
to breakdown of skin 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of back with fat 
layer exposed 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of back with 
necrosis of muscle 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of back with 
necrosis of bone 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of back with 
muscle involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of back with 
bone involvement without evidence of 
necrosis 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of back with 
other specified severity 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of skin of other 
sites limited to breakdown of skin 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of skin of other 
sites with fat layer exposed 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of skin of other 
sites with necrosis of muscle 
Non-pressure chronic ulcer of skin of other 
sites with necrosis of bone 
Frequency Requirements: 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after April 13, 
2021, contractors shall cover PRP services for chronic non­
healing diabetic wounds, G0465, for a maximum of 20 weeks 
beginning with the first week of treatment. 
Effective for claims with dates of services on or after April 
13, 2021, the local MACs shall have discretion to pay PRP 
services for chronic non-healing diabetic wounds, G0465, that 
are performed more than 20 weeks after the date of the first 
PRP service when the -KX modifier is reported on the claim. 
750 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after April 
13, 2021, contractors shall have discretion to cover, and 
determine frequency for, PRP services for chronic non-healing 
nondiabetic wounds, G0460. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 11.3.3
Types of Bill (TOB) 
(Rev. 11214, Issued: 01-20-22, Effective:04-13-21, 
Implementation: 01-03-22 Shared Systems Contractors, 
02-14-22 MACs)
100-4, Chapter-32, 11.3.5
Place of Service (POS) for Professional Claims 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after August 2, 
2012, place of service (POS) codes 11, 22, and 49 shall be 
used for PRP services. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on or after April 13, 
2021, POS codes 11, 19, 22, and 49 shall be used for PRP 
services. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 11.3.6
Medicare Summary Notices (MSNs), Remittance 
Advice Remark Codes (RARCs), Claim 
Adjustment Reason Codes (CARCs) and Group 
Codes 
Contractors shall deny claims for PRP services when provided 
on other than TOBs 12X, 13X, 22X, 23X, 71 X, 75X, 77X, and 
85X using: 
MSN 21.25 - "This service was denied because Medicare only 
covers this service in certain settings." 
Spanish Version - "El servicio fue denegado porque Medicare 
solamente lo cubre en ciertas situaciones." 
CARC 58 - "Treatment was deemed by the payer to have been 
rendered in an inappropriate or invalid place of service. NOTE:
Refer to the 832 Healthcare Policy Identification Segment (loop 
2110 Service payment Information REF), if present. 
RARC N428 - "Service/procedure not covered when performed 
in this place of service." 
Group Code - CO (Contractual Obligation) 
Contractors shall reject claims for PRP services for the 
treatment of chronic non-healing diabetic wounds, G0465, that 
are performed more than 20 weeks after the date of the first 
PRP service when the --KX modifier is NOT included on the 
claim using the following messages: 
CARC 119 - Benefit Maximum for this time period or 
occurrence has been reached. 
RARC N386 - This decision was based on a National 
Coverage Determination (NCD). An NCD provides a coverage 
determination as to whether a particular item or service is 
covered. 
A copy of this policy is available www.cms.gov/mcd/search. 
asp. If you do not have web access, you may contact the 
contractor to request a copy of the NCD. 
Medicare Summary Notice (MSN) 20.5 - These services 
cannot be paid because your benefits are exhausted at this 
time. 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Spanish Version: "Estos servicios no pueden ser pagados 
porque sus beneficios se hanagotado." 
Group Code - CO (Contractual Obligation) 
Contractors shall deny/reject claims for PRP services for the 
treatment of chronic non-healing diabetic wounds, G0465, that 
don't contain the appropriate diagnosis codes as noted above 
and use the following messages: 
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 50 - These are 
non-covered services because this is not deemed a 'medical 
necessity' by the payer. 
Remittance Advice Remark Code (RARC) N386 - This decision 
was based on a National Coverage Determination (NCD). 
An NCO provides a coverage determination as to whether a 
particular item or service is covered. A copy of this policy is 
available at: www.cms.gov/mcd/search.asp. If you do not have 
web access, you may contact the contractor to request a copy 
of the NCO. 
Medicare Summary Notice (MSN) 15.19 - "We used a Local 
Coverage Determination (LCD) to decide coverage for your 
claim. To appeal, get a copy of the LCD at www.cms.gov/ 
medicare-coverage-database (use the MSN Billing Code for 
the CPT/HCPCS Code) and send with information from your 
doctor." 
Spanish Version -Usamos una Determinaci6n de Cobertura 
Local (LCD) para decidir la cobertura de su reclamo. Para 
apelar, obtenga una copia del LCD en www.cms.gov/ 
medicarecoverage-database (use el c6digo de facturaci6n 
de MSN para el c6digo "CPT/HCPCS") yenviela con la 
informaci6n de su medico. 
MSN 15.20 - "The following polices were used when we made 
this decision: NCO 270.3." 
Spanish Version - "Las siguientes politicas fueron utilizadas 
cuando se tom6 esta decision: NCO 270.3." 
NOTE: Due to system requirement, the Fiscal Intermediary 
Shared System (FISS) has combined messages 15.19 
and 15.20 so that, when used for the same line item, both 
messages will appear on the same MSN. 
Group Code - Contractual Obligation (CO). 
100-4, Chapter-32, 40.1
Coverage Requirements 
Effective January 1, 2002, sacral nerve stimulation is covered 
for the treatment of urinary urge incontinence, urgency­
frequency syndrome and urinary retention. Sacral nerve 
stimulation involves both a temporary test stimulation to 
determine if an implantable stimulator would be effective and 
a permanent implantation in appropriate candidates. Both the 
test and the permanent implantation are covered. 
The following limitations for coverage apply to all indications: 
•
Patient must be refractory to conventional therapy
(documented behavioral, pharmacologic and/or surgical
corrective therapy) and be an appropriate surgical
candidate such that implantation with anesthesia can
occur.
Patients with stress incontinence, urinary obstruction,
and specific neurologic diseases (e.g., diabetes with
peripheral nerve involvement) that are associated with
secondary manifestations of the above three indications
are excluded.
CPT-is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Patient must have had a successful test stimulation 
in order to support subsequent implantation. Before 
a patient is eligible for permanent implantation, he/ 
she must demonstrate a 50% or greater improvement 
through test stimulation. Improvement is measured 
through voiding diaries. 
•
Patient must be able to demonstrate adequate ability to
record voiding diary data such that clinical results of the
implant procedure can be properly evaluated.
100-4, Chapter-32, 50
Deep Brain Stimulation for Essential Tremor and 
Parkinson's Disease 
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) refers to high-frequency 
electrical stimulation of anatomic regions deep within the brain 
utilizing neurosurgically implanted electrodes. These DBS 
electrodes are stereotactically placed within targeted nuclei 
on one (unilateral) or both (bilateral) sides of the brain. There 
are currently three targets for DBS -the thalamic ventralis 
intermedius nucleus (VIM), subthalamic nucleus (STN) and 
globus pallidus interna (GPi). 
Essential tremor (ET) is a progressive, disabling tremor most 
often affecting the hands. ET may also affect the head, voice 
and legs. The precise pathogenesis of ET is unknown. While it 
may start at any age, ET usually peaks within the second and 
sixth decades. Beta-adrenergic blockers and anticonvulsant 
medications are usually the first line treatments for reducing 
the severity of tremor. Many patients, however, do not 
adequately respond or cannot tolerate these medications. In 
these medically refractory ET patients, thalamic VIM DBS may 
be helpful for symptomatic relief of tremor. 
Parkinson's disease (PD) is an age-related progressive 
neurodegenerative disorder involving the loss of dopaminergic 
cells in the substantia nigra of the midbrain. The disease is 
characterized by tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia and progressive 
postural instability. Dopaminergic medication is typically used 
as a first line treatment for reducing the primary symptoms of 
PD. However, after prolonged use, medication can become 
less effective and can produce significant adverse events 
such as dyskinesias and other motor function complications. 
For patients who become unresponsive to medical treatments 
and/or have intolerable side effects from medications, DBS for 
symptom relief may be considered. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 60.4.1
Allowable Covered Diagnosis Codes 
For services furnished on or after the implementation of 
ICD-10 the applicable ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes for this 
benefit are: 
ICD-10-CM Code 
Code Description 
D68.51 
Activated protein C resistance 
D68.52 
Prothrombin gene mutation 
D68.59 
Other primary thrombophilia 
D68.61 
Antiphospholipid syndrome 
D68.62 
Lupus anticoagulant syndrome 
123.6 
Thrombosis of atrium, auricular appendage, and ventricle 
as current complications following acute myocardial 
infarction 
126.01 
Septic pulmonary embolism with acute cor pulmonale 
751 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
ICD-10-CM Code 
Code Description 
ICD-10-CM Code 
Code Description 
126.09 
Other pulmonary embolism with acute cor pulmonale 
182.423 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of iliac vein, bilateral 
126.90 
Septic pulmonary embolism without acute cor pulmonale 
182.431 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of right popliteal vein 
126.93 
Single subsegmental pulmonary embolism without acute 
182.432 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of left popliteal vein 
cor pulmonale 
182.433 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of popliteal vein, bilateral 
126.94 
Multiple subsegmental pulmonary emboli without acute 
182.441 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of right tibial vein 
cor pulmonale 
182.442 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of left tibial vein 
126.99 
Other pulmonary embolism without acute cor pulmonale 
182.443 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of tibial vein, bilateral 
127.24 
Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension 
182.451 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of right peroneal vein 
127.82 
Chronic pulmonary embolism 
182.452 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of left peroneal vein 
148.0 
Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation 
182.453 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of peroneal vein, bilateral 
148.11 
Longstanding persistent atrial fibrillation 
148.19 
Other persistent atrial fibrillation 
182.461 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of right calf muscular 
vein 
148.21 
Permanent atrial fibrillation 
182.462 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of left calf muscular vein 
167.6 
Nonpyogenic thrombosis of intracranial venous system 
182.463 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of calf muscular vein, 
180.211 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of right iliac vein 
bilateral 
180.212 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of left iliac vein 
182.491 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of other specified deep 
180.213 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of iliac vein, bilateral 
vein of right lower extremity 
180.221 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of right popliteal vein 
182.492 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of other specified deep 
vein of left lower extremity 
180.222 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of left popliteal vein 
182.493 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of other specified deep 
180.223 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of popliteal vein, bilateral 
vein of lower extremity, bilateral 
180.231 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of right tibial vein 
182.511 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of right femoral vein 
180.232 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of left tibial vein 
182.512 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of left femoral vein 
180.233 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of tibial vein, bilateral 
182.513 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of femoral vein, 
180.241 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of right peroneal vein 
bilateral 
180.242 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of left peroneal vein 
182.521 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of right iliac vein 
180.243 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of peroneal vein, bilateral 
182.522 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of left iliac vein 
180.251 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of right calf muscular vein 
182.523 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of iliac vein, bilateral 
180.252 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of left calf muscular vein 
182.531 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of right popliteal vein 
180.253 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of calf muscular vein, 
182.532 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of left popliteal vein 
bilateral 
182.533 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of popliteal vein, 
180.291 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of other deep vessels of 
bilateral 
right lower extremity 
182.541 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of right tibial vein 
180.292 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of other deep vessels of 
182.542 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of left tibial vein 
left lower extremity 
182.543 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of tibial vein, bilateral 
180.293 
Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis of other deep vessels of 
lower extremity, bilateral 
182.551 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of right peroneal vein 
182.0 
Budd-Chiari syndrome 
182.552 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of left peroneal vein 
182.210 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of superior vena cava 
182.553 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of peroneal vein, 
bilateral 
182.211 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of superior vena cava 
182.220 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of inferior vena cava 
182.561 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of right calf muscular 
vein 
182.221 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of inferior vena cava 
182.562 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of left calf muscular 
182.290 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of other thoracic veins 
vein 
182.291 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of other thoracic veins 
182.563 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of calf muscular vein, 
182.3 
Embolism and thrombosis of renal vein 
bilateral 
182.411 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of right femoral vein 
182.412 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of left femoral vein 
182.413 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of femoral vein, bilateral 
182.591 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of other specified deep 
vein of right lower extremity 
182.592 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of other specified deep 
vein of left lower extremity 
182.421 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of right iliac vein 
182.593 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of other specified deep 
182.422 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of left iliac vein 
vein of lower extremity, bilateral 
752 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
ICD-10-CM Code 
Code Description 
182.621 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of deep veins of right 
upper extremity 
182.622 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of deep veins of left 
upper extremity 
182.623 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of deep veins of upper 
extremity, bilateral 
182.721 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of deep veins of right 
upper extremity 
182.722 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of deep veins of left 
upper extremity 
182.723 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of deep veins of upper 
extremity, bilateral 
182.890 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of other specified veins 
182.891 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of other specified veins 
I82.A11 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of right axillary vein 
I82.A12 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of left axillary vein 
I82.A13 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of axillary vein, bilateral 
I82.A21 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of right axillary vein 
I82.A22 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of left axillary vein 
I82.A23 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of axillary vein, bilateral 
I82.B11 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of right subclavian vein 
I82.B12 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of left subclavian vein 
182.813 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of subclavian vein, 
bilateral 
182.821 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of right subclavian vein 
I82.B22 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of left subclavian vein 
I82.B23 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of subclavian vein, 
bilateral 
I82.C11 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of right internal jugular 
vein 
I82.C12 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of left internal jugular 
vein 
I82.C13 
Acute embolism and thrombosis of internal jugular vein, 
bilateral 
I82.C21 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of right internal jugular 
vein 
I82.C22 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of left internal jugular 
vein 
I82.C23 
Chronic embolism and thrombosis of internal jugular vein, 
bilateral 
087.3 
Cerebral venous thrombosis in the puerperium 
Z79.01 
Long term ( current) use of anticoagulants 
Z86.718 
Personal history of other venous thrombosis and 
embolism 
Z95.2 
Presence of prosthetic heart valve 
Coverage policy can be found in Pub. 100-03, Medicare 
National Coverage Determinations Manual, Chapter 1, section 
190.11 PT/INR. 
(http://www.cms.hhs.gov/manuals/103 _cov _ determ/ 
ncd103index.asp 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 80
Billing of the Diagnosis and Treatment of 
Peripheral Neuropathy with Loss of Protective 
Sensation in People with Diabetes 
Coverage Requirements -Peripheral neuropathy is the most 
common factor leading to amputation in people with diabetes. 
In diabetes, peripheral neuropathy is an anatomically diffuse 
process primarily affecting sensory and autonomic fibers; 
however, distal motor findings may be present in advanced 
cases. Long nerves are affected first, with symptoms 
typically beginning insidiously in the toes and then advancing 
proximally. This leads to loss of protective sensation (LOPS), 
whereby a person is unable to feel minor trauma from 
mechanical, thermal, or chemical sources. When foot lesions 
are present, the reduction in autonomic nerve functions may 
also inhibit wound healing. 
Peripheral neuropathy with LOPS, secondary to diabetes, is 
a localized illness of the feet and falls within the regulation's 
exception to the general exclusionary rule (see 42 C.F.R. 
§411.15(I)(I)(i)). Foot exams for people with diabetic peripheral
neuropathy with LOPS are reasonable and necessary to allow
for early intervention in serious complications that typically
afflict diabetics with the disease.
Effective for services furnished on or after July 1, 2002, 
Medicare covers, as a physician service, an evaluation 
(examination and treatment) of the feet no more often than 
every 6 months for individuals with a documented diagnosis 
of diabetic sensory neuropathy and LOPS, as long as the 
beneficiary has not seen a foot care specialist for some other 
reason in the interim. LOPS shall be diagnosed through 
sensory testing with the 5.07 monofilament using established 
guidelines, such as those developed by the National Institute 
of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases guidelines. 
Five sites should be tested on the plantar surface of each foot, 
according to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases guidelines. The areas must be tested 
randomly since the loss of protective sensation may be patchy 
in distribution, and the patient may get clues if the test is done 
rhythmically. Heavily callused areas should be avoided. As 
suggested by the American Podiatric Medicine Association, 
an absence of sensation at two or more sites out of 5 tested 
on either foot when tested with the 5.07 Semmes-Weinstein 
monofilament must be present and documented to diagnose 
peripheral neuropathy with loss of protective sensation. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 80.2
Applicable HCPCS Codes 
G0245 - Initial physician evaluation and management of a 
diabetic patient with diabetic sensory neuropathy resulting in a 
loss of protective sensation (LOPS) which must include: 
1. The diagnosis of LOPS;
2. A patient history;
3. A physical examination that consists of at least the
following elements:
a. visual inspection of the forefoot, hindfoot, and toe web
spaces,
b. evaluation of a protective sensation,
c. evaluation of foot structure and biomechanics,
d. evaluation of vascular status and skin integrity,
e. evaluation and recommendation of footwear, and
4. Patient education.
753 
G0246 -Follow-up physician evaluation and management of 
a diabetic patient with diabetic sensory neuropathy resulting 
in a loss of protective sensation (LOPS) to include at least the 
following: 
1. a patient history;
2. a physical examination that includes:
a. visual inspection of the forefoot, hindfoot, and toe web 
spaces, 
b. evaluation of protective sensation, 
c. evaluation of foot structure and biomechanics, 
d. evaluation of vascular status and skin integrity, 
e. evaluation and recommendation of footwear, and 
3. patient education. 
G0247 -Routine foot care by a physician of a diabetic patient 
with diabetic sensory neuropathy resulting in a LOPS to 
include if present, at least the following: 
1. local care of superficial (i.e., superficial to muscle and
fascia) wounds;
2. debridement of corns and calluses; and
3. trimming and debridement of nails. 
NOTE: Code G0247 must be billed on the same date of 
service with either G0245 or G0246 in order to be considered 
for payment. 
The short descriptors for the above HCPCS codes are as 
follows: 
G0245 - INITIAL FOOT EXAM PTLOPS 
G0246 - FOLLOW-UP EVAL OF FOOT PT LOP 
G0247 - ROUTINE FOOTCARE PT W LOPS 
100-4, Chapter-32, 80.8
CWF Utilization Edits 
Edit 1- Should CWF receive a claim from an Fl for G0245 or 
G0246 and a second claim from a contractor for either G0245 
or G0246 (or vice versa) and they are different dates of service 
and less than 6 months apart, the second claim will reject. 
CWF will edit to allow G0245 or G0246 to be paid no more 
than every 6 months for a particular beneficiary, regardless of 
who furnished the service. If G0245 has been paid, regardless 
of whether it was posted as a facility or professional claim, it 
must be 6 months before G0245 can be paid again or G0246 
can be paid. If G0246 has been paid, regardless of whether 
it was posted as a facility or professional claim, it must be 6 
months before G0246 can be paid again or G0245 can be 
paid. CWF will not impose limits on how many times each 
code can be paid for a beneficiary as long as there has been 6 
months between each service. 
The CWF will return a specific reject code for this edit to 
the contractors and Fis that will be identified in the CWF 
documentation. Based on the CWF reject code, the contractors 
and Fis must deny the claims and return the following 
messages: 
MSN 18.4 - This service is being denied because it has 
not been_ months since your last examination of this kind 
(NOTE: Insert 6 as the appropriate number of months.) 
RA claim adjustment reason code 96 - Non-covered charges, 
along with remark code M86 - Service denied because 
payment already made for same/similar procedure within set 
time frame. 
754 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Edit 2 
The CWF will edit to allow G0247 to pay only if either G0245 
or G0246 has been submitted and accepted as payable on the 
same date of service. CWF will return a specific reject code for 
this edit to the contractors and Fis that will be identified in the 
CWF documentation. Based on this reject code, contractors 
and Fis will deny the claims and return the following 
messages: 
MSN 21.21 - This service was denied because Medicare 
only covers this service under certain circumstances. 
RA claim adjustment reason code 107 - The related or 
qualifying claim/service was not identified on this claim. 
Edit 3 
Once a beneficiary's condition has progressed to the point 
where routine foot care becomes a covered service, payment 
will no longer be made for LOPS evaluation and management 
services. Those services would be considered to be included 
in the regular exams and treatments afforded to the beneficiary 
on a routine basis. The physician or provider must then just bill 
the routine foot care codes, per Pub 100-02, Chapter 15, §290. 
The CWF will edit to reject LOPS codes G0245, G0246, and/ 
or G0247 when on the beneficiary's record it shows that one 
of the following routine foot care codes were billed and paid 
within the prior 6 months: 11055, 11056, 11057, 11719, 11720, 
and/or 11721. 
The CWF will return a specific reject code for this edit to 
the contractors and Fis that will be identified in the CWF 
documentation. Based on the CWF reject code, the contractors 
and Fis must deny the claims and return the following 
messages: 
MSN 21.21 - This service was denied because Medicare 
only covers this service under certain circumstances. 
The RA claim adjustment reason code 96 -Non-covered 
charges, along with remark code M86 -Service denied 
because payment already made for same/similar procedure 
within set time frame. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 100
Billing Requirements for Expanded Coverage of 
Cochlear Implantation 
Effective for dates of services on and after September 26, 
2022, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) 
has expanded the coverage for cochlear implantation to cover 
bilateral pre- or post- linguistic, sensorineural, moderate-to­
profound hearing loss in individuals with hearing test scores 
equal to or less than 60% correct in the best aided listening 
condition on recorded tests of open-set sentence recognition 
and who demonstrate limited benefit from amplification. (See 
Publication 100-03, Chapter 1, Section 50.3, for complete 
coverage criteria). 
In addition, CMS is covering cochlear implants for beneficiaries 
not meeting the coverage criteria listed under Publication 100-
03, Chapter 1, Section 50.3 when performed in context with: 
A Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved 
category B investigational device exemption (IDE) clinical 
trial as defined at 42 CFR 405.201; or 
•
As a routine cost in a clinical trial under the CMS clinical
trial policy (see Pub. 100-03, section 310.1).
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
100-4, Chapter-32, 110.5
DMERC Billing Instructions 
Effective for dates of service on or after April 27, 2005, 
DMERCs shall allow payment for ultrasonic osteogenic 
stimulators with the following HCPCS codes: 
E0760 for low intensity ultrasound (include modifier "KF"), or; 
E1399 for other ultrasound stimulation (include modifier "KF") 
100-4, Chapter-32, 120.1
Payment for Services and Supplies 
For an IOL inserted following removal of a cataract in a 
hospital, on either an outpatient or inpatient basis, that is paid 
under the hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System 
(OPPS) or the Inpatient Prospective Payment System (IPPS), 
respectively; or in a Medicare-approved ambulatory surgical 
center (ASC) that is paid under the ASC fee schedule: 
•
Medicare does not make separate payment to the
hospital or ASC for an IOL inserted subsequent to
extraction of a cataract. Payment for the IOL is packaged
into the payment for the surgical cataract extraction/lens
replacement procedure.
Any person or ASC, who presents or causes to be
presented a bill or request for payment for an IOL
inserted during or subsequent to cataract surgery for
which payment is made under the ASC fee schedule, is
subject to a civil money penalty.
•
For a P-C IOL or A-C IOL inserted subsequent to removal
of a cataract in a hospital, on either an outpatient or
inpatient basis, that is paid under the OPPS or the IPPS,
respectively; or in a Medicare-approved ASC that is paid
under the ASC fee schedule:
•
The facility shall bill for the removal of a cataract with
insertion of a conventional IOL, regardless of whether a
conventional, P-C IOL, or A-C IOL is inserted. When a
beneficiary receives a P-C or A-C IOL following removal
of a cataract, hospitals and ASCs shall report the same
CPT® code that is used to report removal of a cataract
with insertion of a conventional IOL. Physicians, hospitals
and ASCs may also report an additional HCPCS code,
V2788, to indicate any additional charges that accrue
when a P-C IOL or A-C IOL is inserted in lieu of a
conventional IOL until January 1, 2008. Effective for
A-C IOL insertion services on or after January 1, 2008,
physicians, hospitals and ASCs should use V2787 to
report any additional charges that accrue. On or after
January 1, 2008, physicians, hospitals, and ASCs should
continue to report HCPCS code V2788 to indicate any
additional charges that accrue for insertion of a P-C IOL.
See Section 120.2 for coding guidelines.
•
There is no Medicare benefit category that allows
payment of facility charges for services and supplies
required to insert and adjust a P-C or A-C IOL following
removal of a cataract that exceed the facility charges
for services and supplies required for the insertion and
adjustment of a conventional IOL.
•
There is no Medicare benefit category that allows
payment of facility charges for subsequent treatments,
services and supplies required to examine and monitor
the beneficiary who receives a P-C or A-C IOL following
removal of a cataract that exceeds the facility charges for
subsequent treatments, services and supplies required to
CPT' is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
examine and monitor a beneficiary after cataract surgery 
followed by insertion of a conventional IOL. 
A -For a P-C IOL or A-C IOL inserted in a physician's 
office 
-A physician shall bill for a conventional IOL, regardless of a
whether a conventional, P-C IOL, or A-C IOL is inserted (see
section 120.2, General Billing Requirements).
-There is no Medicare benefit category that allows payment
of physician charges for services and supplies required to
insert and adjust a P-C or A-C IOL following removal of a
cataract that exceed the physician charges for services and
supplies for the insertion and adjustment of a conventional
IOL.
-There is no Medicare benefit category that allows payment
of physician charges for subsequent treatments, service
and supplies required to examine and monitor a beneficiary
following removal of a cataract with insertion of a P-C or A-C
IOL that exceed physician charges for services and supplies
to examine and monitor a beneficiary following removal of a
cataract with insertion of a conventional IOL.
B - For a P-C IOL or A-C IOL inserted in a hospital
-A physician may not bill Medicare for a P-C or A-C IOL
inserted during a cataract procedure performed in a hospital
setting because the payment for the lens is included in the
payment made to the facility for the surgical procedure.
-There is no Medicare benefit category that allows payment
of physician charges for services and supplies required to
insert and adjust a P-C or A-C IOL following removal of a
cataract that exceed the physician charges for services and
supplies required for the insertion of a conventional IOL.
C - For a P-C IOL or A-C IOL inserted in an Ambulatory 
Surgical Center 
-Refer to Chapter 14, Section 40.3 for complete guidance
on payment for P-C IOL or A-C IOL in Ambulatory Surgical
Centers.
100-4, Chapter-32, 120.2
Coding and General Billing Requirements 
Physicians and hospitals must report one of the following 
Current Procedural Terminology (CPT®) codes on the claim: 
66982 - Extracapsular cataract removal with insertion 
of intraocular lens prosthesis (one stage procedure), 
manual or mechanical technique (e.g., irrigation and 
aspiration or phacoemulsification), complex requiring 
devices or techniques not generally used in routine 
cataract surgery (e.g., iris expansion device, suture 
support for intraocular lens, or primary posterior 
capsulorrhexis) or performed on patients in the 
amblyogenic development stage. 
•
66983- lntracapsular cataract with insertion of intraocular
lens prosthesis (one stage procedure)
66984 - Extracapsular cataract removal with insertion
of intraocular lens prosthesis (one stage procedure),
manual or mechanical technique (e.g., irrigation and
aspiration or phacoemulsification)
•
66985 - Insertion of intraocular lens prosthesis
(secondary implant), not associated with concurrent
cataract extraction
•
66986 - Exchange of intraocular lens
755 
In addition, physicians inserting a P-C IOL or A-C IOL in 
an office setting may bill code V2632 (posterior chamber 
intraocular lens) for the IOL. Medicare will make payment for 
the lens based on reasonable cost for a conventional IOL. 
Place of Service (POS) = 11. 
Effective for dates of service on and after January 1, 2006, 
physician, hospitals and ASCs may also bill the non-covered 
charges related to the P-C function of the IOL using HCPCS 
code V2788. Effective for dates of service on and after January 
22, 2007 through January 1, 2008, non-covered charges 
related to A-C function of the IOL can be billed using HCPCS 
code V2788. The type of service indicator for the non-covered 
billed charges is Q. (The type of service is applied by the 
Medicare carrier and not the provider). Effective for A-C IOL 
insertion services on or after January 1, 2008, physicians, 
hospitals and ASCs should use V2787 rather than V2788 to 
report any additional charges that accrue. 
When denying the non-payable charges submitted with 
V2787 or V2788, contractors shall use an appropriate Medical 
Summary Notice (MSN) such as 16.10 (Medicare does not pay 
for this item or service) and an appropriate claim adjustment 
reason code such as 96 (non-covered charges) for claims 
submitted with the non-payable charges. 
Hospitals and physicians may use the proper CPT® code(s) to 
bill Medicare for evaluation and management services usually 
associated with services following cataract extraction surgery, 
if appropriate. 
A - Applicable Bill Types 
The hospital applicable bill types are 12X. 13X. 83X and 85X. 
B - Other Special Requirements for Hospitals 
Hospitals shall continue to pay CAHs method 2 claims under 
current payment methodologies for conditional IOLs. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 130
External Counterpulsation (ECP) Therapy 
Commonly referred to as enhanced external counterpulsation, 
is a non-invasive outpatient treatment for coronary artery 
disease refractory medical and/or surgical therapy. Effective 
for dates of service July 1, 1999, and after, Medicare will cover 
ECP when its use is in patients with stable angina (Class Ill or 
Class IV, Canadian Cardiovascular Society Classification or 
equivalent classification) who, in the opinion of a cardiologist 
or cardiothoracic surgeon, are not readily amenable to surgical 
intervention, such as PTCA or cardiac bypass, because: 
•
Their condition is inoperable, or at high risk of operative 
complications or post-operative failure; 
• 
Their coronary anatomy is not readily amenable to such 
procedures; or 
They have co-morbid states that create excessive risk. 
(Refer to Publication 100-03, section 20.20 for further 
coverage criteria.) 
100-4, Chapter-32, 130.1
Billing and Payment Requirements 
Effective for dates of service on or after January 1, 2000, use 
HCPCS code G0166 (External counterpulsation, per session) 
to report ECP services. The codes for external cardiac assist 
(92971 ), ECG rhythm strip and report (93040 or 93041 ), pulse 
oximetry (94760 or 94761) and plethysmography (93922 or 
756 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
93923) or other monitoring tests for examining the effects of 
this treatment are not clinically necessary with this service 
and should not be paid on the same day, unless they occur in 
a clinical setting not connected with the delivery of the ECP. 
Daily evaluation and management service, e.g., 99201- 99205, 
99211-99215, 99217-99220, 99241- 99245, and G0463 
cannot be billed with the ECP treatments. Any evaluation 
and management service must be justified with adequate 
documentation of the medical necessity of the visit. Deductible 
and coinsurance apply. 
Note: Please note that effective December 31, 2020 evaluation 
and management service code 99201 is enddated. Effective 
December 31, 2022 codes 99217,99218,99219,99220 and 
99241 are end dated. For Part A, remove CPT® codes 99202-
99215, 99242-99245 and replace with G0463 (the OPPS 
equivalent of E/M codes) effective retroactive to 10/1/2015. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 140.2.2.1
Correct Place of Service (POS) Code for CR and 
ICR Services on Professional Claims 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after 
January 1, 2010, place of service (POS) code 11 shall be 
used for CR and ICR services provided in a physician's office 
and POS 22 shall be used for services provided in a hospital 
outpatient setting. All other POS codes shall be denied. 
Contractors shall adjust their prepayment procedure edits as 
appropriate. 
The following messages shall be used when contractors deny 
CR and ICR claims for POS: 
Claim Adjustment Reason Code (CARC) 171 -Payment is 
denied when performed/billed by this type of provider in this 
type of facility. 
NOTE: Refer to the 832 Healthcare Policy Identification 
Segment (loop 2110 Service payment Information REF), if 
present. 
Remittance Advice Remark Code (RARC) N428 - Service/ 
procedure not covered when performed in this place of service. 
Medicare Summary Notice (MSN) 21.25 -This service was 
denied because Medicare only covers this service in certain 
settings. 
Group Code PR (Patient Responsibility) -Where a claim is 
received with the GA modifier indicating that a signed ABN is 
on file. 
Group Code CO (Contractor Responsibility) -Where a claim is 
received with the GZ modifier indicating that no signed ABN is 
on file. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 140.3
ICR Program Services Furnished On or After 
January 1, 2010 
As specified at 42 CFR 410.49, Medicare Part B covers ICR 
for beneficiaries who have experienced one or more of the 
following: 
• 
An acute Ml within the preceding 12 months;
A coronary artery bypass surgery;
Current stable angina pectoris;
• 
Heart valve repair or replacement;
•
PTCA or coronary stenting; 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
A heart or heart-lung transplant; 
Stable, chronic heart failure defined as patients with 
left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or less and 
NYHA class 11 to IV symptoms despite being on optimal 
heart failure therapy for at least 6 weeks, on or after 
February 9, 2018; or, 
Other cardiac conditions as specified through an NCO. 
The NCO process may also be used to specify non­
coverage of a cardiac condition for ICR if coverage is not 
supported by clinical evidence. 
ICR must include all of the following components: 
Physician-prescribed exercise each day CR items and 
services are furnished. 
•
Cardiac risk factor modification, including education,
counseling, and behavioral intervention, tailored to the 
individual's needs. 
•
Psychosocial assessment.
•
Outcomes assessment.
An individualized treatment plan detailing how 
components are utilized for each patient. The 
individualized treatment plan must be established,
reviewed, and signed by a physician every 30 days. 
A list of approved ICR programs, identified through the NCO 
process, will be listed in the Federal Register and is available 
on the CMS website at 
https://www.cms.gov/_Medicare/Medicare- Generallnformation/ 
MedicareApprovedFacilitie/lCR. In order to be approved, a 
program must demonstrate through peer-reviewed, published 
research that it has accomplished one or more of the following 
for its patients: 
•
Positively affected the progression of coronary heart
disease.
•
Reduced the need for coronary bypass surgery. 
Reduced the need for percutaneous coronary
interventions.
An ICR program must also demonstrate through peer­
reviewed published research that it accomplished a statistically 
significant reduction in 5 or more of the following measures 
for patients from their levels before CR services to after CR 
services: 
Low density lipoprotein. 
Triglycerides. 
•
Body mass index.
•
Systolic blood pressure.
•
Diastolic blood pressure.
•
The need for cholesterol, blood pressure, and diabetes 
medications.
Medicare Part B pays for ICR in a physician's office or a 
hospital outpatient setting. All settings must have a physician 
immediately available and accessible for medical consultations 
and emergencies at all times when items and services are 
being furnished under the program. This provision is satisfied if 
the physician meets the requirements for direct supervision for 
physician office services, at 42 CFR 410.26, and for hospital 
outpatient services at 42 CFR 410.27. 
As specified at 42 CFR 410.49(f)(2), ICR sessions are limited 
to 72 1-hour sessions (as defined in section 1848(b)(5) of the 
Act), up to 6 sessions per day, over a period of up to 18 weeks. 
CP  is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 140.3.1
Coding Requirements for ICR Services Furnished 
On or After January 1, 2010 
The following are the applicable HCPCS codes for ICR: 
G0422 (Intensive cardiac rehabilitation; with or without 
continuous ECG monitoring, with exercise, per hour, per 
session) 
G0423 (Intensive cardiac rehabilitation; with or without 
continuous ECG monitoring, without exercise, per hour, per 
session) 
Effective for dates of service on or after January 1, 2010, 
hospitals and practitioners may report a maximum of 6 1-hour 
sessions per day. In order to report one session of ICR in a 
day, the duration of treatment must be at least 31 minutes. 
Additional sessions of ICR beyond the first session may only 
be reported in the same day if the duration of treatment is 31 
minutes or greater beyond the hour increment. In other words, 
in order to report 6 sessions of ICR on a given date of service, 
the first five sessions would account for 60 minutes each and 
the sixth session would account for at least 31 minutes. If 
several shorter periods of ICR are furnished on a given day, 
the minutes of service during those periods must be added 
together for reporting in 1-hour session increments. 
Example: If the patient receives 20 minutes of ICR in the day, 
no ICR session may be reported because less than 31 minutes 
of services were furnished. 
Example: If a patient receives 20 minutes of ICR in lhe 
morning and 35 minutes of ICR in the afternoon of a single 
day, the hospital or practitioner would report 1 session of 
ICR under1 unit of the appropriate HCPCS code for the total 
duration of 55 minutes of ICR on that day. 
Example: If the patient receives 70 minutes of ICR in the 
morning and 25 minutes of ICR in the afternoon of a single 
day, the hospital or practitioner would report two sessions of 
ICR under the appropriate HCPCS code(s) because the total 
duration of ICR on that day of 95 minutes exceeds 90 minutes. 
Example: If the patient receives 70 minutes of ICR in the 
morning and 85 minutes of ICR in the afternoon of a single 
day, the hospital or practitioner would report three sessions of 
ICR under the appropriate HCPCS code(s) because the total 
duration of ICR on that day is 155 minutes, which exceeds 
150 minutes and is less than 211 minutes. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 140.4
PR Program Services Furnished On or After 
January 1, 2010 
As specified in 42 CFR 410.47, Medicare Part B covers PR for 
beneficiaries: 
With moderate to very severe COPD (defined as 
GOLD classification 11, Ill and IV), when referred by the 
physician treating the chronic respiratory disease; 
Who have had confirmed or suspected COVID-19 and 
experience persistent symptoms that include respiratory 
dysfunction for at least four weeks (effective January 1, 
2022); 
Additional medical indications for coverage for PR may 
be established through an NCO. 
PR must include all of the following components: 
757 
•
Physician-prescribed exercise during each pulmonary
rehabilitation session.
•
Education or training that is closely and clearly related 
to the individual's care and treatment which is tailored 
to the individual's needs and assists in achievement 
of goals toward independence in activities of daily
living, adaptation to limitations and improved quality of
life. Education must include information on respiratory 
problem management and, if appropriate, brief smoking 
cessation counseling. 
Psychosocial assessment. 
•
Outcomes assessment. 
•
An individualized treatment plan detailing how 
components are utilized for each patient. 
The individualized treatment plan must be established, 
reviewed, and signed by a physician every 30 days. 
Medicare Part B pays for PR in a physician's office or a 
hospital outpatient setting. All settings must have the following: 
(i) A physician immediately available and accessible for
medical consultations and emergencies at all times when items
and services are being furnished under the program. This
provision is satisfied if the physician meets the requirements 
for direct supervision for physician office services, at 42
CFR 410.26, and for hospital outpatient services at 42 CFR
410.27, and, (ii) The necessary cardio-pulmonary, emergency,
diagnostic, and therapeutic life-saving equipment accepted by 
the medical community as medically necessary (for example, 
oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment, and
defibrillator) to treat chronic respiratory disease.
As specified at 42 CFR 410.47(e), the number of PR sessions 
are limited to a maximum of 2 1-hour sessions per day for 
up to 36 sessions over up to 36 weeks with the option for 
an additional 36 sessions over an extended period of time if 
approved by the MACs. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 140.4.1
Coding Requirements for PR Services Furnished 
On or After January 1, 2010 
The following are the applicable HCPCS codes for PR: 
Effective January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2021 
G0424 (Pulmonary rehabilitation, including exercise (includes 
monitoring), per hour, per session) 
Effective January 1, 2022 
94625 (Physician or other qualified health care professional 
services for outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation; without 
continuous oximetry monitoring (per session)) 
94626 (Physician or other qualified health care professional 
services for outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation; with 
continuous oximetry monitoring (per session) 
Effective for dates of service on or after January 1, 201 O, 
hospitals and practitioners may report a maximum of 2 1-hour 
sessions per day. In order to report one session of PR in a day, 
the duration of treatment must be at least 31 minutes. Two 
sessions of PR may only be reported in the same day if the 
duration of treatment is at least 91 minutes. In other words, 
the first session would account for 60 minutes and the second 
session would account for at least 31 minutes, if two sessions 
are reported. If several shorter periods of PR are furnished on 
a given day, the minutes of service during those periods must 
be added together for reporting in 1-hour session increments. 
758 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
Example: If the patient receives 20 minutes of PR in the day, 
no PR session may be reported because less than 31 minutes 
of services were furnished. 
Example: If a patient receives 20 minutes of PR in the 
morning and 35 minutes of PR in the afternoon of a single day, 
the hospital or practitioner would report 1 session of PR under 
1 unit of HCPCS code/CPT® code for the total duration of 55 
minutes of PR on that day. 
Example: If the patient receives 70 minutes of pulmonary 
rehabilitation services in the morning and 25 minutes of 
pulmonary rehabilitation services in the afternoon of a single 
day, the hospital or practitioner would report two sessions 
of pulmonary rehabilitation services under the HCPCS 
G-code/CPT® codes because the total duration of pulmonary
rehabilitation services on that day of 95 minutes exceeds
90 minutes. 
Example: If the patient receives 70 minutes of pulmonary 
rehabilitation services in the morning and 85 minutes of 
pulmonary rehabilitation services in the afternoon of a single 
day, the hospital or practitioner would report two sessions of 
pulmonary rehabilitation services under the HCPCS G-code/ 
CPT® codes for the total duration of pulmonary rehabilitation 
services of 155 minutes. A maximum of two sessions per day 
may be reported, regardless of the total duration of pulmonary 
rehabilitation services. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 250.1
Coverage Requirements 
Effective August 3, 2009, pharmacogenomic testing to predict 
warfarin responsiveness is covered only when provided to 
Medicare beneficiaries who are candidates for anticoagulation 
therapy with warfarin; i.e., have not been previously tested 
for CYP2C9 or VKORC1 alleles; and have received fewer 
than five days of warfarin in the anticoagulation regimen for 
which the testing is ordered; and only then in the context of a 
prospective, randomized, controlled clinical study when that 
study meets certain criteria as outlined in Pub 100-03, section 
90.1, of the NCO Manual. 
NOTE: A new temporary HCPCS Level II code effective August 
3, 2009, G9143, warfarin responsiveness testing by genetic 
technique using any method, any number of specimen(s}, was 
developed to enable implementation of CED for this purpose. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 250.2
Billing Requirements 
Institutional clinical trial claims for pharmacogenomic testing 
for warfarin response are identified through the presence of all 
of the following elements: 
•
Value Code 04 and 8-digit clinical trial number (when 
present on the claim) - Refer to Transmittal 310, Change 
Request 5790, dated January 18, 2008;
•
ICD-10 diagnosis code Z00.6 (secondary)- Refer to 
Transmittal 310, Change Request 5790, dated January
18, 2008; and Z79.01 (primary); 
•
Condition Code 30 - Refer to Transmittal 31 O, Change
Request 5790, dated January 18, 2008;
•
HCPCS modifier QO: outpatient claims only - Refer to 
Transmittal 1418, Change Request 5805, dated January
18,2008; and,
•
HCPCS code G9143 (mandatory with the April 201 O 
Integrated Outpatient Code Editor (IOCE) and the
January 2011 Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (CLFS)
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
updates. Prior to these times, any trials should bill Fis for 
this test as they currently do absent these instructions, 
and the Fis should process and pay those claims 
accordingly.) 
Practitioner clinical trial claims for pharmacogenomic testing 
for warfarin response are identified through the presence of all 
of the following elements: 
•
ICD-10-diagnosis code Z00.6 (secondary), and ICD-1 O
diagnosis code Z79.01
•
(primary) MCS edit 031L70.7; 
8-digit clinical trial number(when present on the claim); 
HCPCS modifier 00; and, MCS edit 031L 
•
HCPCS code G9143 (to be carrier priced for claims with 
dates of service on and after August 3, 2009, that are 
processed prior to the January 2011 CLFS update.)
NOTE: This NCO does not determine coverage to identify 
CYP2C9 or VKORC1 alleles for other purposes beside 
warfarin responsiveness, nor does it determine national 
coverage to identify other alleles to predict warfarin 
responsiveness. These decisions are made at the local MAC 
level. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 260.1
Policy 
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) received 
a request for national coverage of treatments for facial 
lipodystrophy syndrome (LDS) for human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV)-infecled Medicare beneficiaries. Facial LDS is often 
characterized by a loss of fat that results in a facial abnormality 
such as severely sunken cheeks. This fat loss can arise as a 
complication of HIV and/or highly active antiretroviral therapy. 
Due to their appearance and stigma of the condition, patients 
with facial LOS may become depressed, socially isolated, and 
in some cases may stop their HIV treatments in an attempt to 
halt or reverse this complication. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after March 
23, 2010, dermal injections for facial LDS are only reasonable 
and necessary using dermal fillers approved by the Food and 
Drug Administration for this purpose, and then only in HIV­
infected beneficiaries who manifest depression secondary to 
the physical stigmata of HIV treatment. 
See Pub. 100-03, National Coverage Decision manual, section 
250.5, for detailed policy information concerning treatment of 
LOS. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 260.2.1
Hospital Billing Instructions 
A -Hospital Outpatient Claims 
For hospital outpatient claims, hospitals must bill covered 
dermal injections for treatment of facial LOS by having all of 
the required elements on the claim: 
A line with HCPCS codes 02026 or 02027 with a Line 
Item Date of service (LIDOS) on or after March 23, 2010, 
A line with HCPCS code G0429 with a LIDOS on or after 
March 23, 2010, 
If ICD-9-CM is applicable,ICD-9-CM diagnosis codes 042 
(HIV) and 272.6 (Lipodystrophy)or, 
If ICD-10-CM is applicable, ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes 
B20 Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) disease and 
E88.1 Lipodystrophy, not elsewhere classified 
CP-re is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
The applicable NCO is 250.5 Facial Lipodystrophy. 
B - Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS)
Hospitals or Ambulatory Surgical Centers (ASCs): 
For line item dates of service on or after March 23, 2010, and 
until HCPCS codes 02026 and 02027 are billable, facial LOS 
claims shall contain a temporary HCPCS code C9800 (this 
code has been deleted in 2017), instead of HCPCS G0429 
and HCPCS 02026/02027, as shown above. 
C -Hospital Inpatient Claims 
Hospitals must bill covered dermal injections for treatment of 
facial LDS by having all of the required elements on the claim: 
•
Discharge date on or after March 23, 2010,
If ICD-9-CM is applicable, 
•
ICD-9-CM procedure code 86.99 (other operations on 
skin and subcutaneous tissue, i.e., injection of filler 
material), or 
•
ICD-9-CM diagnosis codes 042 (HIV) and 272.6
(Lipodystrophy) 
If ICD-10-PCS is applicable, 
•
ICD-10-PCS procedure code 3EOOXGC Introduction 
of Other Therapeutic Substance into Skin and Mucous 
Membranes, External Approach, or 
•
ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes B20 Human
Immunodeficiency Virus [HIV] disease and E88.1
Lipodystrophy not elsewhere classified. 
A diagnosis code for a comorbidity of depression may also be 
required for coverage on an outpatient and/or inpatient basis 
as determined by the individual Medicare contractor's policy. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 260.2.2
Practitioner Billing Instructions 
Practitioners must bill covered claims for dermal injections for 
treatment of facial LOS by having all of the required elements 
on the claim: 
Performed in a non-facility setting: 
A line with HCPCS codes 02026 or 02027 with a LIDOS 
on or after March 23, 2010, 
NOTE: 02027 is replaced with 02028 effective 1/1/14 per the 
2014 HCPCS update. 
•
A line with HCPCS code G0429 with a LIDOS on or after
March 23, 2010, 51 If ICD-10-CM applies, diagnosis 
codes B20 Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) disease 
and E88. 1 (Lipodystrophy not elsewhere classified). Both
diagnoses are required on the claim. 
NOTE: A diagnosis code for a comorbidity of depression may 
also be required for coverage based on the individual Medicare 
contractor's policy. 
52 A line with HCPCS code G0429 with a LIDOS on or after 
March 23, 2010, 
53 If ICD-10 CM- applies, ICD-10-CM diagnosis codes B20 
Human immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) disease and E88.1 
(Lipodystrophy not elsewhere classified). Both diagnoses are 
required on the claim. 
NOTE: A diagnosis code for a comorbidity of depression may 
also be required for coverage based on the individual Medicare 
contractor's policy. 
759 
100-4, Chapter-32, 280.1
Policy 
Effective for services furnished on or after June 30, 2011, a 
National Coverage Determination (NCO) provides coverage of 
sipuleucel-T (PROVENGE®) for patients with asymptomatic or 
minimally symptomatic metastatic, castrate-resistant (hormone 
refractory) prostate cancer. Conditions of Medicare Part A and 
Medicare Part B coverage for sipuleucel-T are located in the 
Medicare NCO Manual, Publication 100-03, section 110.22. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 280.2
Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) Codes and Diagnosis Coding 
HCPCS Codes 
Effective for claims with dates of service on June 30, 2011, 
Medicare providers shall report one of the following HCPCS 
codes for PROVENGE®: 
•
C9273 - Sipuleucel-T, minimum of 50 million autologous 
CD54+ cells activated with PAP-GM-CSF, including
leukapheresis and all other preparatory procedures, per 
infusion, or 
J349O -Unclassified Drugs, or 
•
J359O -Unclassified Biologics.
NOTE: Contractors shall continue to process claims for 
HCPCS code C9273, J349O, and J359O, with dates of service 
June 30, 2011, as they do currently. 
Effective for claims with dates of service on and after July 1, 
2011, Medicare providers shall report the following HCPCS 
code: 
Q2O43 - Sipuleucel-T, minimum of 50 million autologous 
CD54+ cells activated with PAP-GM-CSF, including 
leukapheresis and all other preparatory procedures, per 
infusion; short descriptor, Sipuleucel-T auto CD54+. 
ICD-9 Diagnosis Coding 
For claims with dates of service on and after July 1, 2011, 
for PROVENGE®, the on-label indication of asymptomatic or 
minimally symptomatic metastatic, castrate-resistant (hormone 
refractory) prostate cancer, must be billed using ICD-9 code 
185 (malignant neoplasm of prostate) and at least one of the 
following ICD-9 codes: 
ICD-9 Code 
196.1 
196.2 
196.5 
196.6 
196.8 
196.9 
760 
Description 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of 
intrathoracic lymph nodes 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of intra­
abdominal lymph nodes 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of lymph 
nodes of inguinal region and lower limb 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of 
intrapelvic lymph nodes 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of lymph 
nodes of multiple sites 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of lymph 
node site unspecified -The spread of cancer to and 
establishment in the lymph nodes. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
ICD-9 Code 
Description 
197.0 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of lung -Cancer that has 
spread from the original (primary) tumor to the lung. The 
spread of cancer to the lung. This may be from a primary 
lung cancer, or from a cancer at a distant site. 
197.7 
Malignant neoplasm of liver secondary -Cancer that 
has spread from the original (primary) tumor to the 
liver. A malignant neoplasm that has spread to the liver 
from another (primary) anatomic site. Such malignant 
neoplasms may be carcinomas (e.g., breast, colon), 
lymphomas, melanomas, or sarcomas. 
198.0 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of kidney -The spread 
of the cancer to the kidney. This may be from a primary 
kidney cancer involving the opposite kidney, or from a 
cancer at a distant site. 
198.1 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of other urinary organs 
198.5 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of bone and bone marrow 
-Cancer that has spread from the original (primary) tumor 
to the bone. The spread of a malignant neoplasm from 
a primary site to the skeletal system. The majority of 
metastatic neoplasms to the bone are carcinomas.
198.7 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of bone and bone marrow 
-Cancer that has spread from the original (primary) tumor
to the bone. The spread of a malignant neoplasm from
a primary site to the skeletal system. The majority of
metastatic neoplasms to the bone are carcinomas. 
198.82 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of genital organs 
Coding for Off-Label PROVENGE® Services 
T he use of PROVENGE® off-label for the treatment of prostate 
cancer is left to the discretion of the Medicare Administrative 
Contractors. Claims with dates of service on and after July 1, 
2011, for PROVENGE® paid off-label for the treatment of 
prostate cancer must be billed using either ICD-9 code 233.4 
(carcinoma in situ of prostate), or ICD-9 code 185 (malignant 
neoplasm of prostate) in addition to HCPCS Q2O43. Effective 
with the implementation date for ICD-1O codes, off-label 
PROVENGE® services must be billed with either ICD-1O 
code 0O75(carcinoma in situ of prostate), or C61 (malignant 
neoplasm of prostate) in addition to HCPCS Q2O43. 
ICD-10 Diagnosis Coding 
Contractors shall note the appropriate ICD-1 O code(s) that are 
listed below for future implementation. Contractors shall track 
the ICD-1O codes and ensure that the updated edit is turned 
on as part of the ICD-1O implementation effective October 1, 
2013. 
ICD-10 
Description 
C61 
Malignant neoplasm of prostate (for on-label or off-label 
indications) 
D075 
Carcinoma in situ of prostate (for off-label indications only) 
C77.1 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of 
intrathoracic lymph nodes 
C77.2 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of intra-
abdominal lymph nodes 
C77.4 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of inguinal 
and lower limb lymph nodes 
C77.5 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of intrapelvic 
lymph nodes 
C77.8 
! Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of lymph 
i nodes of mËltiple regions 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
ICD-10 
Description 
C77.9 
Secondary and unspecified malignant neoplasm of lymph 
node, unspecified 
C78.00 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of unspecified lung 
C78.01 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of right lung 
C78.02 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of left lung 
C78.7 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of liver 
C79.00 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of unspecified kidney and 
renal pelvis 
C79.01 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of right kidney and renal pelvis 
C79.02 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of left kidney and renal pelvis 
C79.10 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of unspecified urinary organs 
C79.11 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of bladder 
C79.19 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of other urinary organs 
C79.51 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of bone 
C79.52 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of bone marrow 
C79.70 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of unspecified adrenal gland 
C79.71 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of right adrenal gland 
C79.72 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of left adrenal gland 
C79.82 
Secondary malignant neoplasm of genital organs 
100-4, Chapter-32, 280.4
Payment Method 
Payment for PROVENGE® is as follows: 
•
TOBs 12X, 13X, 22X and 23X -based on the Average
Sales Price (ASP) + 6%,
•
TOB 85X -based on reasonable cost,
TOBs 71X and 77X-based on all-inclusive rate.
For Medicare Part B practitioner claims, payment for 
PROVENGE® is based on ASP + 6%. 
Contractors shall not pay separately for routine costs 
associated with PROVENGE®, HCPCS 02043, except for the 
cost of administration. (02043 is all-inclusive and represents 
all routine costs except for its cost of administration). 
100-4, Chapter-32, 280.5
Medicare Summary Notices (MSNs), Remittance 
Advice Remark Codes (RARCs), Claim 
Adjustment Reason Codes (CARCs), and Group 
Codes 
Contractors shall use the following messages when denying 
claims for the on-label indication for PROVENGE®, HCPCS 
02043, submitted without ICD-9-CM diagnosis code 185 and 
at least one diagnosis code from the ICD-9 table in Section 
280.2 above: 
MSN 14.9 - Medicare cannot pay for this service for the 
diagnosis shown on the claim. 
Spanish Version -Medicare no puede pagar por este servicio 
debido al diagn6stico indicado en la reclamaci6n. 
RARC 167 - This (these) diagnosis (es) are not covered. 
NOTE: Refer to the 835 Healthcare Policy Identification 
segment (loop 2110 Service Payment Information REF), if 
present. 
Group Code - CO (Contractual Obligation) 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Alf rights reserved. 
Contractors shall use the following messages when denying 
claims for the off-label indication for PROVENGE®, HCPCS 
02043, submitted without ICD-9-CM diagnosis code 233.4: 
MSN 14.9 - Medicare cannot pay for this service for the 
diagnosis shown on the claim. 
Spanish Version - Medicare no puede pagar por este servicio 
debido al diagn6stico indicado en la reclamaci6n. 
RARC 167 - This (these) diagnosis (es) are not covered. 
NOTE: Refer to the 835 Healthcare Policy Identification 
segment (loop 2110 Service Payment Information REF), if 
present. 
Group Code -CO (Contractual Obligation) 
For claims with dates of service on or after July 1, 2012, 
processed on or after July 2, 2012, when denying claims for 
PROVENGE®, HCPCS 02043 that exceed three (3) services 
in a patient's lifetime, contractors shall use the following 
messages: 
MSN 20.5 - These services cannot be paid because your 
benefits are exhausted at this time. 
Spanish Version - Estos servicios no pueden ser pagados 
porque sus beneficios se han agotado. 
RARC N362 - The number of Days or Units of Service exceeds 
our acceptable maximum. 
CARC 149 -Lifetime benefit maximum has been reached for 
this service/benefit category. 
Group Code - CO (Contractual Obligation) 
100-4, Chapter-32, 300
Billing Requirements for Ocular Photodynamic 
Therapy (OPT) with Verteporfin 
Ocular Photodynamic Therapy (OPT) is used in the treatment 
of ophthalmologic diseases; specifically, for age-related 
macular degeneration (AMD), a common eye disease among 
the elderly. OPT involves the infusion of an intravenous 
photosensitizing drug called Verteporfin, followed by exposure 
to a laser. For complete Medical coverage guidelines, 
see National Coverage Determinations (NCD) Manual 
(Pub 100-03) § 80.2 through 80.3.1. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 300.1
Coding Requirements for OPT with Verteporfin 
The following are applicable Current Procedural Terminology 
(CPT®) codes for OPT with Verteporfin: 
67221- Destruction of localized lesion of choroid (e.g. 
choroidal neovascularization); photodynamic therapy (includes 
intravenous infusion) 
67225- Destruction of localized lesion of choroid (e.g. choroidal 
neovascularization); photodynamic therapy, second eye, at 
single session (List separately in addition to code for primary 
eye treatment) 
The following are applicable Healthcare Common Procedure 
Coding System (HCPCS) code for OPT with Verteporfin: 
J3396- Injection, Verteporfin, 0.1 mg 
761 
100-4, Chapter-32, 300.2
OPT with Verteporfin is a covered service when billed with the 
below ICD-10-CM codes 
Nationally Covered ICD-10-CM codes 
H35.3210 
H35.3211 
H35.3212 
H35.3213 
H35.3220 
H35.3221 
H35.3222 
H35.3223 
H35.3230 
H35.3231 
H35.3232 
H35.3233 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, right eye, stage 
unspecified 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, right eye, with 
active choroidal neovascularization 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, right eye, with 
inactive choroidal neovascularization 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, right eye, with 
inactive scar 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, left eye, stage 
unspecified 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, left eye, with 
active choroidal neovascularization 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, left eye, with 
inactive choroidal neovascularization 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, left eye, with 
inactive scar 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, bilateral, stage 
unspecified 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, bilateral, with 
active choroidal neovascularization 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, bilateral, with 
inactive choroidal neovascularization 
Exudative age-related macular degeneration, bilateral, with 
inactive scar 
ICD-10- Codes for OPT with Verteporfin for other 
ocular indications are eligible for local coverage 
determinations through individual contractor 
discretion. 
839.4 
839.5 
839.9 
H32 
H44.2A1 
H44.2A2 
H44.2A3 
H44.281 
H44.282 
H44.283 
H44.2C1 
H44.2C2 
H44.2C3 
762 
Histocapsulati, unspecified 
(Translates to combination of both B39.4 & H32) 
Histoplasmosis duboisii 
(Requires H32 coverage) 
Histoplasmosis, unspecified 
(Requires H32 coverage) 
Chorioretinal disorders in diseases classified elsewhere 
(Requires 839.4 coverage) 
Degenerative myopia with choroidal neovascularization, right 
eye 
Degenerative myopia with choroidal neovascularization, left 
eye 
Degenerative myopia with choroidal neovascularization, 
bilateral eye 
Degenerative myopia with macular hole, right eye 
Degenerative myopia with macular hole, left eye 
Degenerative myopia with macular hole, bilateral eye_ 
Degenerative myopia with retinal detachment, right eye 
Degenerative myopia with retinal detachment, left eye 
Degenerative myopia with retinal detachment, bilateral eye 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
H44.2D1 
Degenerative myopia with foveoschisis, right eye 
H44.2D2 
Degenerative myopia with foveoschisis, left eye 
H44.2D3 
Degenerative myopia with foveoschisis, bilateral eye 
H44.2E1 
Degenerative myopia with other maculopathy, right eye 
H44.2E2 
Degenerative myopia with other maculopathy, left eye 
H44.2E3 
Degenerative myopia with other maculopathy, bilateral eye 
H44.21 
Degenerative Myopia, right eye 
H44.22 
Degenerative Myopia, left eye 
H44.23 
Degenerative Myopia, bilateral 
H35.711 
Central serous chorioretinopathy, right eye 
H35.712 
Central serous chorioretinopathy, left eye 
H35.713 
Central serous chorioretinopathy, bilateral 
Coverage is denied when billed with the below 
Nationally Non-Covered ICD-10-CM codes 
Nationally Non-Covered ICD-10-CM codes: 
H35.30 
Unspecified macular degeneration 
H35.3110 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, right eye, 
stage unspecified 
H35.3111 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, right eye, 
early dry stage 
H35.3112 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, right eye, 
intermediate dry stage 
H35.3113 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, right eye, 
advanced atrophic without subfoveal involvement 
H35.3114 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, right eye, 
advanced atrophic with subfoveal involvement 
H35.3120 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, left eye, 
stage unspecified 
H35.3121 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, left eye, early 
dry stage 
H35.3122 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, left eye, 
intermediate dry stage 
H35.3123 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, left eye, 
advanced atrophic without subfoveal involvement 
H35.3124 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, left eye, 
advanced atrophic with subfoveal involvement 
H35.3130 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, bilateral, 
stage unspecified 
H35.3131 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, bilateral, 
early dry stage 
H35.3132 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, bilateral, 
intermediate dry stage 
H35.3133 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, bilateral, 
advanced atrophic without subfoveal involvement 
H35.3134 
Nonexudative age-related macular degeneration, bilateral, 
advanced atrophic with subfoveal involvement 
Payment for OPT service (CPT® code 67221/67225) must be 
billed on the same claim as the drug (J3396) for the same date 
of service. 
Claims for OPT with Verteporfin for dates of service prior to 
April 3, 2013 are covered at the initial visit as determined by 
a fluorescein angiogram (FA) CPT® code 92235. Subsequent 
follow-up visits also require a FA prior to treatment. 
CPT9 is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
. ...., 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
For claims with dates of service on or after April 3, 2013, 
contractors shall accept and process claims for subsequent 
follow-up visits with either a FA, CPT® code 92235, or optical 
coherence tomography (OCT), CPT® codes 92133 or 92134, 
prior to treatment. 
Regardless of the date of service of the claim, the FA or OCT 
is not required to be submitted on the claim for OPT and can 
be maintained in the patient's file for audit purposes. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 310
Transesophageal Doppler Used for Cardiac 
Monitoring 
Effective May 17, 2007, Transesophageal Doppler used for 
cardiac monitoring is covered for ventilated patients in the 
ICU and operative patients with a need for intra-operative 
fluid optimization was deemed reasonable and necessary . 
See National Coverage Determinations Manual (Pub. 100-
03)§220.5, for complete coverage guidelines.
A new Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System 
(HCPCS) code, G9157, Transesophageal Doppler used for 
cardiac monitoring, will be made effective for use for dates of 
service on or after January 1, 2013. 
100-4, Chapter-32, 310.2
Coding Requirements for Transesophageal 
Doppler Cardiac Monitoring Furnished On or 
After January 1, 2013 
After January 1, 2013, the applicable HCPCS code for 
Transesophageal Doppler cardiac monitoring is: 
HCPCS G9157: Transesophageal Doppler used for cardiac 
monitoring 
Contractors shall allow HCPCS G9157 to be billed when 
services are provided in POS 21 for ventilated patients in the 
ICU or for operative patients with a need for intra-operative 
fluid optimization. 
Contractors shall deny HCPCS 76999 when billed for 
Esophageal Doppler for ventilated patients in the ICU or 
for operative patients with a need for intra-operative fluid 
optimization using the following messages: 
CARC 189: "'Not otherwise classified' or 'unlisted' procedure 
code (CPT®/HCPCS) was billed when there is a specific 
procedure code for this procedure/service." 
RARC M20: "Missing/incomplete/invalid HCPCS." 
MSN 16.13: "The code(s) your provider used is/are not valid 
for the date of service billed." (English version) or "El/los 
c6digo(s) que us6 su proveedor no es/son valido(s) en la 
fecha de servicio facturada." (Spanish version). 
Group Code: Contractual Obligation (CO) 
100-4, Chapter-32, 310.3
Correct Place of Service (POS) Code for 
Transesophageal Doppler Cardiac Monitoring 
Services on Professional Claims 
Contractors shall pay for Transesophageal Doppler cardiac 
monitoring, G9157, only when services are provided at POS 21. 
Contractors shall deny HCPCS G9157 when billed globally 
in any POS other than 21 for ventilated patients in the ICU 
CPT• is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
or for operative patients with a need for intra-operative fluid 
optimization using the following messages: 
CARC 58:"Treatment was deemed by the payer to have been 
rendered in an inappropriate or invalid place of service. NOTE:
Refer to the 835 Healthcare Policy Identification Segment (loop 
2110 Service Payment Information REF), if present. 
MSN 16.2: This service cannot be paid when provided in this 
location/facility. 
Group Code: CO 
100-4, Chapter-36, 50. 14
Purchased Accessories & Supplies for Use With 
Grandfathered Equipment 
Non-contract grandfathered suppliers must use the KY 
modifier on claims for CSA-residing beneficiaries with 
dates of service on or after January 1, 2011, for purchased, 
covered accessories or supplies furnished for use with rented 
grandfathered equipment. The following HCPCS codes are the 
codes for which use of the KY modifier is authorized: 
•
Continuous Positive Airway Pressure Devices,
Respiratory Assistive Devices, and Related Supplies and
Accessories -A4604, A7030, A7031, A7032, A7033,
A7034,A7035,A7036,A7037,A7038,A7039,A7044,
A7045, A7046, E0561, and E0562
Hospital Beds and Related Accessories - E0271, E0272,
E0280, and E0310
•
Walkers and Related Accessories -E0154, E0156,
E0157 and E0158
Grandfathered suppliers that submit claims for the payment 
of the aforementioned purchased accessories and supplies 
for use with grandfathered equipment should submit the 
applicable single payment amount for the accessory or 
supply as their submitted charge on the claim. Non-contract 
grandfathered suppliers should be aware that purchase claims 
submitted for these codes without the KY modifier will be 
denied. In addition, claims submitted with the KY modifier for 
HCPCS codes other than those listed above will be denied. 
After the rental payment cap for the grandfathered equipment 
is reached, the beneficiary must obtain replacement supplies 
and accessories from a contract supplier. The supplier of the 
grandfathered equipment is no longer permitted to furnish 
the supplies and accessories once the rental payment cap is 
reached. 
100-4, Chapter-36, 50. 15
Hospitals Providing Walkers and Related 
Accessories to Their Patients on the Date of 
Discharge 
Hospitals may furnish walkers and related accessories to their 
own patients for use in the home during an admission or on 
the date of discharge and receive payment at the applicable 
single payment amount, regardless of whether the hospital 
is a contract supplier or not. Separate payment is not made 
for walkers furnished by a hospital for use in the hospital, as 
payment for these items is included in the Part A payment for 
inpatient hospital services. 
To be paid for walkers as a non-contract supplier, the hospital 
must use the modifier J4 in combination with the following 
HCPCS codes: A4636; A4637; E0130; E0135; E0140; E0141; 
E0143; E0144;E0147; E0148;E0149; E0154; E0155; E0156; 
E0157; E0158; and E0159. Under this exception, hospitals 
763 
are advised to submit the claim for the hospital stay before or 
on the same day that they submit the claim for the walker to 
ensure timely and accurate claims processing. 
Hospitals that are located outside a CBA that furnish walkers 
and/or related accessories to travelling beneficiaries who live 
in a CBA must affix the J4 modifier to claims submitted for 
these items. 
The J4 modifier should not be used by contract suppliers. 
100-8, Chapter-4, 4.7.3.1.1
Proof of Delivery and Delivery Methods 
This section applies to UPICs. This section is applicable 
to DME MACs, RACs, SMRC, and CERT medical review 
contractors, as noted in Ch. 5, Section 5.8. 
For the purpose of the delivery methods noted below, 
designee is defined as: 
"Any person who can sign and accept the delivery of durable 
medical equipment on behalf of the beneficiary." 
Suppliers, their employees, or anyone else having a financial 
interest in the delivery of the item are prohibited from signing 
and accepting an item on behalf of a beneficiary (i.e., acting as 
a designee on behalf of the beneficiary). The signature of the 
designee should be legible. If the signature of the designee is 
not legible, the supplier/shipping service should note the name 
of the designee on the delivery slip. 
Three methods of delivery are: 
Supplier delivering directly to the beneficiary or designee; 
Supplier utilizing a delivery/shipping service to deliver 
items; and 
Delivery of items to a nursing facility on behalf of the 
beneficiary. 
The date of delivery may be entered by the beneficiary, 
designee or the supplier. As a general Medicare rule, the 
date of service shall be the date of delivery. Exceptions are 
made for suppliers who use a delivery/shipping service. If the 
supplier uses a delivery/shipping service, the supplier may 
use the shipping date as the date of service on the claim. The 
shipping date may be defined as the date the delivery/shipping 
service label is created or the date the item is retrieved 
for delivery; however, such dates should not demonstrate 
significant variation. (See Pub. 100-08, chapter 5, section 5.2.4 
for further information on written orders prior to delivery.) 
764 
Appendix I Publication 100 References 
CPT" is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All rights reserved. 
0
0
C
(
C
C
("
(
C 
C
C
( 
C 
r 
Get yours today at 
www.aapc.com/ specialtyguides 
@])AAPC 
,..,., 
An AAPC webinar subscription is a simple and effective way to increase your knowledge 
and stay tuned into the latest changes and developments in our industry. 
With your subscription you can: 
• Gain unlimited access to 250+ webinars on-demand - including all major
healthcare industry updates
• Learn tips, tricks, and best practices from trusted experts
• Receive new live webinars every month
• Build your knowledge of topics that relate directly to your day-to-day tasks
• Earn CEUs in the process
Future-proof your career and stay current in medical coding, billing, auditing, 
compliance, practice management, and more with AAPC webinars. 
Lock in your webinar subscription now at aapc.com/webinars 
_
r 
News. 
There's a reason they don't call it 'Olds.' 
When it comes to medical coding and revenue cycle management, we can't afford to move ahead with 
yesterday's news. That's why we offer eNewsletters in various specialties and areas of healthcare 
business. Get the must-have news you need in coding, practice management, post-acute regulations, 
compliance, healthcare technology, and more. 
Subscribe today and enjoy regular updates and in-depth articles - each specific to your specialty or 
domain. You can also earn CEUs with your subscription* . 
With your eNewsletter 
subscription, you get: 
• 
HI I 
w-
_ _...,.,.
==-· 
--
---·-·-­--
..,,,,._,, .. ,, 
EIM CODING ALER! __ _
,...;,...__,..,....,;;...1ri_,, ... ., 
-·
sr.,..,c..,.,.r11t-£1Na1_,
,.,,.,.._c....., 
a.1_,.. • ..,.E/M.rlll'fllll ........... 
,.... __ 
,... ... _.....,._.,. . .....,?. 
__ ,,,,,,__ .. ,__ ___ ,... .... _ 
___ ..,..._ ......... _·-
... -J---·-""""'K ..... --""""'' 
,.. .. , ...................
__ .. ______ ......, ___ 
,... __ ,,,,. __ ........, __ _ 
-
• Clear and concise summaries
of new regulations and payer
programs
- .
• Practical solutions to
real-world scenarios provided by experts
---....... -,,__ . .--.. ,... .. 
.-,n._ .................... _,_, .. ...,. ... 
...._.. ........... __ , .. __ .,,.. .... _,,.,_ 
........ --.. "'·-·------,..,,., 
-····--.... ,... ........... .....__, L .. ·----.. -•--In>· 
__________ ..,.,.,._.._ 
'---a--:-_=_--;)::-::,_,-,, 
__ e::a 
•• ::-::*+:c::-, 
.... :,:.--:.&=-•. :::-':..c:-:n_-
--
!.-::.::..'__,._, ___ irt)Jt .... ,.. ............ ,,. 
........, .. ,,.., ..____ ,._
• Industry news, including updates on MAC
and RAC activities, the OIG Work Plan, and
CERT reports
., __ 
--
• Immediate access to all past
11:m?:a -=:ma ICllcll ■ ··l:·P'I■ 
C!'."",.	•r•".I 
articles published in your eNewsletter
• 6 AAPC CEUs*
Whether you are a coder, biller, auditor, or other type of healthcare business professional, 
eNewsletters keep you up to date and in the know. You can always rely on AAPC to give you the latest 
news. Otherwise, you're just working with 'olds.' 
Visit aapc.com/newsletter or call 844-334-2816 
to speak with a representative. 
• CEUs are not available with the Home Health & Hospice Week eNewsletter.
ffiAAPC 
,:,,J 
NOTES 
-
NOTES 
NOTES 
NOTES 
NOTES 
NOTES 
NOTES 
NOTES 
NOTES 
NOTES 
-
-
----
NOTES 
0 
Q 
0 
0 
0 
() 
0
(j 
CJ
,,,.

C
C
0
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
c·'
C,-
""-
C
C 
(_;o 
(_ 
0 
c_) 
l. 
L 
(_, 
L 
G 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
'-
Modifier 
KJ 
KK 
KL 
KM 
KN 
KO 
KP 
KO 
KR 
KS 
KT 
KU 
KV 
KW 
KX 
KY 
KZ 
LC 
LO 
LL 
LM 
LR 
LS 
LT 
LU 
M2 
MA 
MB 
MC 
MD 
Description 
DMEPOS item, parenteral enteral 
nutrition (PEN) pump or capped 
rental, months four to fifteen 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS 
comoetitive bidding prooram number 2 
DMEPOS item delivered via mail 
Replacement of facial prosthesis 
includino new im□ression/moulage 
Replacement of facial prosthesis 
usina orevious master model 
Single drug unit dose formulation 
First drug of a multiple drug unit 
dose formulation 
Second or subsequent drug of a 
multiole drua unit dose formulation 
Rental item, billina for oartial month 
Glucose monitor supply for diabetic 
beneficiarv not treated with insulin 
Beneficiary resides in a competitive 
bidding area and travels outside 
that competitive bidding area and 
receives a comoetitive bid item 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS 
competitive biddina orooram number 3 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS 
competitive bidding program that is 
furnished as part of a professional 
service 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS 
competitive bidding orogram number 4 
Requirements specified in the 
medical □olicv have been met 
DMEPOS item subject to DMEPOS 
comoetitive biddino orooram number 5 
New coverage not implemented by 
manaaed care 
Left circumflex coronarv artery 
Left anterior descending coronary 
artery 
Lease/rental (use the 'II' modifier 
when DME equipment rental is to be 
aoolied against the ourchase price) 
Left main coronarv arterv 
Laboratorv round trio 
FDA-monitored intraocular lens 
implant 
Left side (used to identify procedures 
oertormed on the left side of the body) 
Fractionated oavment 
Medicare secondarv □aver (MSP) 
Ordering professional is not required 
to consult a clinical decision 
support mechanism due to service 
being rendered to a patient with a 
suspected or confirmed emergency 
medical condition 
Ordering professional is not required 
to consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism due to the significant 
hardship exception of insufficient 
internet access 
Ordering professional is not required 
to consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism due to the significant 
hardship exception of electronic 
health record or clinical decision 
suooort mechanism vendor issues 
Ordering professional is not required 
to consult a clinical decision support 
mechanism due to the significant 
hardship exception of extreme and 
uncontrollable circumstances 
Modifier 
ME 
MF 
MG 
MH 
MS 
N1 
N2 
N3 
NB 
NR 
NU 
P1 
P2 
P3 
P4 
P5 
P6 
Description 
The order for this service adheres 
to appropriate use criteria in the 
clinical decision support mechanism 
consulted by the ordering 
professional 
The order for this service does 
not adhere to the appropriate use 
criteria in the clinical decision 
support mechanism consulted by the 
ordering rofessional 
The order for this service does 
not have applicable appropriate 
use criteria in the qualified clinical 
decision support mechanism 
consulted b the orderin 
rofessional 
Unknown if ordering professional 
consulted a clinical decision support 
mechanism for this service, related 
information was not provided to the 
furnishing rofessional or rovider 
Six month maintenance and servicing 
fee for reasonable and necessary parts 
and labor which are not covered under 
any manufacturer or su lier warran 
Nebulizer system, any type, FDA­
cleared for use with s ecific dru 
New when rented (use the 'NR' 
modifier when DME which was new 
at the time of rental is st•bsequently 
urchased 
New e uipment 
A normal health 
atient 
A atient with mild s stemic disease 
A patient with severe systemic 
disease 
A patient with severe systemic disease 
that is a constant threat to life 
A moribund patient who is not 
expected to survive without the 
o eration 
A declared brain-dead patient whose 
organs are being removed for donor 
ur oses 
PA 
Surgical or other invasive procedure 
on wrong bod part 
PB 
Surgical or other invasive procedure 
on wrong atient 
PC 
Wrong surgery or other invasive 
rocedure on alien! 
PD 
Diagnostic or related non diagnostic 
item or service provided in a wholly 
owned or operated entity to a patient 
who is admitted as an inpatient 
within 3 da s 
Pl 
Positron emission tomography 
(PET) or PET/computed tomography 
(CT) to inform the initial treatment 
strategy of tumors that are biopsy 
proven or strongly suspected of being 
cancerous based on other diagnostic 
testin 
PL 
Progressive addition lenses 
PM 
Post mortem 
PN 
Non-excepted service provided at an 
off-campus, outpatient, provider­
based department of a hos ital 
PO 
Excepted service provided at an off­
campus, outpatient, provider-based 
de artment of a hos ital 
Modifier 
PS 
PT 
00 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
06 
07 
08 
09 
QA 
QB 
QC 
OD 
OE 
OF 
QG 
OH 
OJ 
OK 
Description 
Positron emission tomography (PET) 
or PET/computed tomography (CT) 
to inform the subsequent treatment 
strategy of cancerous tumors when 
the beneficiary's treating physician 
determines that the PET study is 
needed to inform subsequent anti-
tumor strategy 
Colorectal cancer screening test; 
converted to diagnostic test or other 
I orocedure 
lnvestigational clinical service provided 
in a clinical research study that is in an 
aooroved clinical research studv 
Routine clinical service provided in 
a clinical research study that is in an 
aooroved clinical research study 
Demonstration procedure/service 
Live kidney donor surgery and 
related services 
Service for ordering/referring physician 
aualifies as a service exemotion 
Service furnished under a reciprocal 
billing arrangement by a substitute 
physician or by a substitute physical 
therapist furnishing outpatient 
physical therapy services in a health 
professional shortage area, a medically 
underserved area, or a rural area 
Service furnished under a fee-for-time 
compensation arrangement by a 
substitute physician or by a substitute 
physical therapist furnishing outpatient 
physical therapy services in a health 
professional shortage area, a medically 
underserved area, or a rural area 
One class A finding 
Two class B findings 
One class B and two class C findings 
Prescribed amounts of stationary 
oxygen for daytime use while at rest 
and nighttime use differ and the 
average of the two amounts is less 
than 1 liter □er minute (LPM) 
Prescribed amounts of stationary 
oxygen for daytime use while at rest 
and nighttime use differ and the 
average of the two amounts exceeds 
4 liters per minute (LPM) and 
portable oxvoen is orescribed 
Single channel monitoring 
Recording and storage in solid state 
memorv bv a dioital recorder 
Prescribed amount of stationary 
oxygen while at rest is less than 
1 liter □er minute ILPMl 
Prescribed amount of stationary 
oxygen while at rest exceeds 4 liters 
per minute (LPM) and portable 
oxvoen is □rescribed 
Prescribed amount of stationary 
oxygen while at rest is greater than 
4 liters oer minute (LPM) 
Oxygen conserving device is being 
used with an oxvnen delivery system 
Services/items provided to a 
prisoner or patient in state or local 
custody, however the state or local 
government, as applicable, meets the 
reouirements in 42 CFR 411.4 (bl 
Medical direction of two, three, or four 
concurrent anesthesia procedures 
involving aualified individuals 
Modifier 
Description 
Modifier 
Description 
Modifier 
Description 
OL 
Patient pronounced dead after 
ambulance called 
SM 
Second surgical opinion 
SN 
Third surgical opinion 
TV 
Special payment rates, holidays/ 
weekends 
OM 
Ambulance service provided under 
arrangement by a orovider of services 
ON 
Ambulance service furnished directly 
-
by a provider of services 
OP 
Documentation is on file showing 
that the laboratory test( s) was 
SQ 
Item ordered by home health 
ss 
Home infusion services provided in 
the infusion suite of the IV therapy 
provider 
ST 
Related to trauma or iniurv 
SU 
Procedure performed in physician's 
TW 
Back-up equipment 
U1 
Medicaid level of care 1, as defined 
by each state 
U2 
Medicaid level of care 2, as defined 
by each state 
ordered individually or ordered as a 
office (to denote use of facility and 
U3 
Medicaid level of care 3, as defined 
CPT®-recognized panel other than 
equipment) 
by each state 
automated profile codes 80002-
80019, G0058, G0059, and G0060. 
QQ 
Ordering professional consulted a 
qualified clinical decision support 
mechanism for this service and the 
related data was provided to the 
furnishing professional 
QR 
Prescribed amounts of stationary 
oxygen for daytime use while at rest 
sv 
Pharmaceuticals delivered to 
oatient's home but not utilized 
SW 
Services provided by a certified 
diabetic educator 
SY 
Persons who are in close contact with 
member of high-risk population (use 
only with codes for immunization} 
T1 
Left foot, second digit 
T2 
Left foot, third diait 
U4 
Medicaid level of care 4, as defined 
by each state 
U5 
Medicaid level of care 5, as defined 
by each state 
U6 
Medicaid level of care 6, as defined 
by each state 
U7 
Medicaid level of care 7, as defined 
by each state 
and nighttime use differ and the 
T3 
Left foot, fourth diait 
U8 
Medicaid level of care 8, as defined 
average of the two amounts is greater 
T4 
Left foot, fifth diait 
by each state 
than 4 liters per minute (LPM} 
OS 
Monitored anesthesia care service 
T5 
Right foot, great toe 
T6 
Right foot, second digit 
U9 
Medicaid level of care 9, as defined 
by each state 
QT 
Recording and storage on tape by an 
analog tape recorder 
ow 
CUA waived test 
ox 
CRNA service: with medical direction 
bv a ohysician 
OY 
Medical direction of one certified 
registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) 
bv an anesthesiolooist 
T7 
Right foot, third digit 
T8 
Right foot, fourth digit 
T9 
Riaht foot, fifth diait 
TA 
Left foot, areat toe 
TB 
Drug or biological acquired with 
340b drug pricing program discount, 
reported for informational purposes 
for select entities 
UA 
Medicaid level of care 10, as defined 
by each state 
UB 
Medicaid level of care 11, as defined 
by each state 
UC 
Medicaid level of care 12, as defined 
by each state 
UD 
Medicaid level of care 13, as defined 
oz 
CRNA service: without medical 
direction by a physician 
RA 
Replacement of a DME, orthotic or 
- prosthetic item 
RB 
Replacement of a part of a DME, 
orthotic or prosthetic item furnished 
as part of a repair 
RC 
Right coronary artery 
RD 
Drug provided to beneficiary, but not 
administered "incident-to" 
RE 
Furnished in full compliance with 
FDA-mandated risk evaluation and 
mitiaation strateav <REMS} 
RI 
Ramus intermedius coronary artery 
RR 
Rental (use the 'RR' modifier when 
DME is to be rented} 
RT 
Right side (used to identify 
TC 
Technical component; under certain 
circumstances, a charge may be 
made for the technical component 
alone; under those circumstances 
the technical component charge is 
identified by adding modifier 'TC' to 
the usual procedure number; technical 
component charges are institutional 
charges and not billed separately 
by physicians; however, portable 
X-ray suppliers only bill for technical 
component and should utilize modifier 
TC; the charge data from portable 
X-ray suppliers will then be used to 
build customary and prevailing profiles 
TD 
RN 
TE 
LPN/LVN 
TF 
Intermediate level of care 
by each state 
UE 
Used durable medical equipment 
UF 
Services provided in the morning 
UG 
Services provided in the afternoon 
UH 
Services provided in the evening 
UJ 
Services provided at night 
UK 
Services provided on behalf of the 
client to someone other than the 
client (collateral relationship) 
UN 
Two patients served 
UP 
Three patients served 
UQ 
Four patients served 
UR 
Five patients served 
us 
Six or more patients served 
V1 
Demonstration modifier 1 
procedures performed on the right 
side of the body} 
SA 
Nurse practitioner rendering service 
in collaboration with a physician 
SB 
Nurse midwife 
SC 
Medically necessary service or supply 
SD 
Services provided by registered 
nurse with specialized, highly 
technical home infusion training 
SE 
State and/or federally-funded 
proarams/services 
TG 
Complex/high tech level of care 
TH 
Obstetrical treatment/services, 
prenatal or postpartum 
TJ 
Program group, child and/or 
adolescent 
TK 
Extra patient or passenger, non-
ambulance 
TL 
Early intervention/individualized 
family service plan {IFSP) 
TM 
Individualized education oroaram flEPl 
TN 
Rural/outside providers' customary 
V2 
Demonstration modifier 2 
V3 
Demonstration modifier 3 
V4 
Demonstration modifier 4 
V5 
Vascular catheter (alone or with any 
other vascular access) 
V6 
Arteriovenous graft (or other 
vascular access not including a 
vascular catheter) 
V7 
Arteriovenous fistula only (in use 
with two needles) 
SF 
Second opinion ordered by a 
service area 
VM 
Medicare diabetes prevention program 
professional review organization 
TP 
Medical transport, unloaded vehicle 
(MDPP) virtual make-up session 
(PRO) per section 9401, p.l. 99-272 
(100% reimbursement - no Medicare 
deductible or coinsurance) 
SG 
Ambulatory surgical center (ASC) 
TO 
Basic life support transport by a 
volunteer ambulance provider 
TR 
School-based individualized 
education program (IEP) services 
VP 
Aphakic patient 
X1 
Continuous/broad services 
X2 
Continuous/focused services 
facility service 
provided outside the public school 
X3 
Episodic/broad services 
SH 
Second concurrently administered 
infusion therapy 
SJ 
Third or more concurrently 
administered infusion therapy 
SK 
Member of high risk population (use 
only with codes for immunization} 
SL 
State suoolied vaccine 
district resoonsible for the student 
TS 
Follow-up service 
TT 
Individualized service provided 
to more tnan one patient in same 
setting 
TU 
Special payment rate, overtime 
X4 
Episodic/focused services 
X5 
Diagnostic services requested by 
another clinician 
XE 
Separate encounter, a service that is 
distinct because it occurred during a 
separate encounter 
Modifier 
Description 
XP 
Separate practitioner, a service that 
is distinct because it was performed 
by a different practitioner 
Anesthesia Modifiers 
Modifier 
Description 
CPf$ Modifiers 
23 
Unusual anesthesia 
47 
Anesthesia by surgeon 
LEVEL II (HCPCS/National) Modifiers 
P1 
A normal healthy patient 
P2 
A patient with mild systemic 
disease 
P3 
A patient with severe systemic 
disease 
P4 
A patient with severe systemic 
disease that is a constant threat 
to life 
PS 
A moribund patient who is not 
expected to survive without the 
operation 
Ambulatory Modifiers 
Modifier 
Description 
CPT® Modifiers 
25 
Significant, Separately Identifiable 
Evaluation and Management 
Service by the Same Physician 
or Other Qualified Health Care 
Professional on the Same Day of 
the Procedure or Other Service 
27 
Multiple Outpatient Hospital E/M 
Encounters on the Same Date 
33 
Preventive Services 
50 
Bilateral Procedure 
52 
Reduced Services 
58 
Staged or Related Procedure or 
Service by the Same Physician 
or Other Qualified Health 
Care Professional During the 
Postoperative Period 
59 
Distinct Procedural Service 
73 
Discotinued Out-Patient 
Hospital/Ambulatory Surgery 
Center (ASC) Procedure Prior to 
the Administration of Anesthesia 
74 
Discontinued Out-Patient 
Hospital/Ambulatory Surgery 
Center (ASC) Procedure After 
Administration of Anesthesia 
76 
Repeat Procedure or Service 
by Same Physician or Other 
Qualified Health Care Professional 
77 
Repeat Procedure by Another 
Physician or Other Qualified 
Health Care Professional 
Modifier 
Description 
XS 
Separate structure, a service that is 
distinct because it was performed on 
a separate organ/structure 
Modifier 
Description 
P6 
A declared brain-dead patient 
whose organs are being removed 
for donor purposes 
AA 
Anesthesia services performed 
personally by the anesthesiologist 
AD 
Medical supervision by a 
physician: more than four 
concurrent anesthesia 
procedures 
GB 
Monitored anesthesia care (MAC) 
for deep complex, complicated, 
or markedly invasive surgical 
procedure 
G9 
Monitored anesthesia care 
for patient who has history 
of severe cardio-pulmonary 
condition 
Modifier 
Description 
78 
Unplanned Return to the 
Operating/Procedure Room by 
the Same Physician or Other 
Qualified Health Care Professional 
Following Initial Procedure for 
a Related Procedure During the 
Postoperative Period 
79 
Unrelated Procedure or Service 
by the Same Physician or Other 
Qualified Health Care Professional 
During the Postoperative Period 
91 
Repeat Clinical Diagnostic 
Laboratory Test 
LEVEL II (HCPCS/National) Modifiers 
E1 
Upper left, eyelid 
E2 
Lower left, eyelid 
E3 
Upper right, eyelid 
E4 
Lower right, eyelid 
F1 
Left hand, second digit 
F2 
Left hand, third digit 
F3 
Left hand, fourth digit 
F4 
Left hand, fifth digit 
F5 
Right hand, thumb 
F6 
Right hand, second digit 
F7 
Right hand, third digit 
FB 
Right hand, fourth digit 
F9 
Right hand, fifth digit 
FA 
Left hand, thumb 
GG 
Performance and payment of 
a screening mammogram and 
diagnostic mammogram on the 
same patient, same day 
Modifier 
Descriptioa 
XU 
Unusual non-overlapping service, 
the use of a service that is distinct 
because it does not overlap usual 
components of the main service 
Modifier 
Description 
GC 
This service has been performed 
in part by a resident under the 
direction of a teaching physician 
QK 
Medical direction of two, three, 
or lour concurrent anesthesia 
procedures involving qualified 
individuals 
as 
Monitored anesthesia care service 
ax 
CRNA service: with medical 
direction by a physician 
QY 
Medical direction of one certified 
registered nurse anesthetist 
(CRNA) by an anesthesiologist 
QZ 
CRNA service: without medical 
direction by a physician 
Modifier 
Description 
GH 
Diagnostic mammogram 
converted from screening 
mammogram on same day 
LC 
Left circumflex coronary artery 
LD 
Left anterior descending coronary 
artery 
LM 
Left main coronary artery 
LT 
Left side (used to identify 
procedures performed on the left 
side of the body) 
QM 
Ambulance service provided 
under arrangement by a provider 
of services 
QN 
Ambulance service furnished 
directly by a provider of services 
RC 
Right coronary artery 
RI 
Ramus intermedius coronary artery 
RT 
Right side (used to identify 
procedures performed on the 
right side of the body) 
T1 
Left foot, second digit 
T2 
Left foot, third digit 
T3 
Left foot, fourth digit 
T4 
Left foot, fifth digit 
T5 
Right foot, great toe 
T6 
Right foot, second digit 
T7 
Right foot, third digit 
TB 
Right foot, fourth digit 
T9 
Right foot, fifth digit 
TA 
Left foot, great toe 
Thanl< You for Your 
Contribution to the 
Hardship Fund 
Thanks to your book purchase, AAPC will be able to help even more members who face 
financial difficulty through the Hardship Fund. 
The Hardship Fund is a financial aid program created to assist our members with: 
../ 
Maintaining their membership and certification through 
membership renewal dues, exam prep tools and more 
Registration for national or regional conferences 
Certain local chapter events 
All awards are based on the availability of funds and the applicant's ability to 
demonstrate reasonable hardship. A portion of each book sale goes to helping more 
applicants through their time of need. We appreciate your contribution and your 
support for your fellow AAPC members. 
To learn more about the Hardship Fund and its efforts or apply 
for financial assistance, visit aapc.com. 
@])AAPC 
. 2024 HCPCS Level II Expert 
111111111 I II I I 
9 
781646 
318193 
ISBN: 978-1-646318-193 
E-Book ISBN: 978-1-646318-247
